One day an old man and his wife were sitting in front of a miserable house resting a while from their work. Suddenly a splendid carriage with four black horses came driving up, and a richly-dressed man descended from it. The peasant stood up, went to the great man, and asked what he wanted, and in what way he could be useful to him? The stranger stretched out his hand to the old man, and said,  The peasant smiled and said,  The wife went into the kitchen, and began to wash and rub the potatoes, and to make them into balls, as they are eaten by the country-folks. Whilst she was busy with this work, the peasant said to the stranger,  He had dug some holes in the garden, and now wanted to plant some trees in them.  asked the stranger,   answered the peasant, \n\n\tThe old man took a young tree, put it in a hole, drove in a post beside it, and when he had shovelled in some earth and had trampled it firmly down, he tied the stem of the tree above, below, and in the middle, fast to the post by a rope of straw.  said the stranger,  The old man smiled and said,   said the stranger,   replied the old man,   asked the stranger.  replied the peasant,  When he had said that the stranger pulled off his coat, bared his shoulder, and showed the peasant the bean.  cried the old man,  and love for his child stirred in his heart.  he added,   answered the son,   said the father,  He took him to his mother, and when she heard that was her son, she wept for joy, but when he told her that he had become a master-thief, two streams flowed down over her face. At length she said,  They sat down to table, and once again he ate with his parents the wretched food which he had not eaten for so long. The father said,   When evening drew near, the master-thief seated himself in his carriage, and drove to the castle. The count received him civilly, for he took him for a distinguished man. When, however, the stranger made himself known, the count turned pale and was quite silent for some time. At length he said,   answered the master-thief,  The count reflected for some minutes, and then said, \n\n\tThe master-thief went to the nearest town; there he bought the clothes of an old peasant woman, and put them on. Then he stained his face brown, and painted wrinkles on it as well, so that no one could have recognized him. Then he filled a small cask with old Hungary wine in which was mixed a powerful sleeping-drink. He put the cask in a basket, which he took on his back, and walked with slow and tottering steps to the count's castle. It was already dark when he arrived. He sat down on a stone in the court-yard and began to cough, like an asthmatic old woman, and to rub his hands as if he were cold. In front of the door of the stable some soldiers were lying round a fire; one of them observed the woman, and called out to her,  The old woman tottered up to them, begged them to lift the basket from her back, and sat down beside them at the fire.  asked one.  she answered.   said the soldier, and when he had tasted one glass he said,  and had another poured out for himself, and the rest followed his example.  cried one of them to those who were in the stable,  The old woman carried her cask into the stable. One of the soldiers had seated himself on the saddled riding-horse, another held its bridle in his hand, a third had laid hold of its tail. She poured out as much as they wanted until the spring ran dry. It was not long before the bridle fell from the hand of the one, and he fell down and began to snore, the other left hold of the tail, lay down and snored still louder. The one who was sitting in the saddle, did remain sitting, but bent his head almost down to the horse's neck, and slept and blew with his mouth like the bellows of a forge. The soldiers outside had already been asleep for a long time, and were lying on the ground motionless, as if dead. When the master-thief saw that he had succeeded, he gave the first a rope in his hand instead of the bridle, and the other who had been holding the tail, a wisp of straw, but what was he to do with the one who was sitting on the horse's back? He did not want to throw him down, for he might have awakened and have uttered a cry. He had a good idea, he unbuckled the girths of the saddle, tied a couple of ropes which were hanging to a ring on the wall fast to the saddle, and drew the sleeping rider up into the air on it, then he twisted the rope round the posts, and made it fast. He soon unloosed the horse from the chain, but if he had ridden over the stony pavement of the yard they would have heard the noise in the castle. So he wrapped the horse's hoofs in old rags, led him carefully out, leapt upon him, and galloped off.\n\n\tWhen day broke, the master galloped to the castle on the stolen horse. The count had just got up, and was looking out of the window.  he cried to him,  The count could not help laughing, then he said,  When the countess went to bed that night, she closed her hand with the wedding-ring tightly together, and the count said,  The master-thief, however, went in the dark to the gallows, cut a poor sinner who was hanging there down from the halter, and carried him on his back to the castle. Then he set a ladder up to the bedroom, put the dead body on his shoulders, and began to climb up. When he had got so high that the head of the dead man showed at the window, the count, who was watching in his bed, fired a pistol at him, and immediately the master let the poor sinner fall down, and hid himself in one corner. The night was sufficiently lighted by the moon, for the master to see distinctly how the count got out of the window on to the ladder, came down, carried the dead body into the garden, and began to dig a hole in which to lay it.  thought the thief,  stole nimbly out of his corner, and climbed up the ladder straight into the countess's bedroom.  he began in the count's voice,  The countess gave him the sheet.  continued the thief,  She would not gainsay the count, and although she did it unwillingly she drew the ring from her finger, and gave it to him. The thief made off with both these things, and reached home safely before the count in the garden had finished his work of burying.\n\n\tWhat a long face the count did pull when the master came next morning, and brought him the sheet and the ring.  said he,   said the thief,  and he told him exactly how everything had happened, and the count was forced to own to him that he was a clever, crafty thief.  he added,  The master smiled and returned no answer. When night had fallen he went with a long sack on his back, a bundle under his arms, and a lantern in his hand to the village-church. In the sack he had some crabs, and in the bundle short wax-candles. He sat down in the churchyard, took out a crab, and stuck a wax-candle on his back. Then he lighted the little light, put the crab on the ground, and let it creep about. He took a second out of the sack, and treated it in the same way, and so on until the last was out of the sack. Hereupon he put on a long black garment that looked like a monk's cowl, and stuck a gray beard on his chin. When at last he was quite unrecognizable, he took the sack in which the crabs had been, went into the church, and ascended the pulpit. The clock in the tower was just striking twelve; when the last stroke had sounded, he cried with a loud and piercing voice,  The cry echoed through the whole village. The parson and clerk who lived nearest to the church, heard it first, and when they saw the lights which were moving about the churchyard, they observed that something unusual was going on, and went into the church. They listened to the sermon for a while, and then the clerk nudged the parson and said,   answered the parson,   answered the clerk,  So the parson went first, and ascended the pulpit where the master opened his sack. The parson crept in first, and then the clerk. The master immediately tied up the sack tightly, seized it by the middle, and dragged it down the pulpit-steps, and whenever the heads of the two fools bumped against the steps, he cried,  Then he drew them through the village in the same way, and when they were passing through puddles, he cried,  And when at last he was dragging them up the steps of the castle, he cried,  When he had got to the top, he pushed the sack into the pigeon-house, and when the pigeons fluttered about, he said,  Then he bolted the door upon them, and went away.\n\n\tNext morning he went to the count, and told him that he had performed the third task also, and had carried the parson and clerk out of the church.  asked the lord.  The count went up himself, and convinced himself that the master had told the truth. When he had delivered the parson and clerk from their captivity, he said,  The arch-thief took leave of his parents, once more went forth into the wide world, and no one has ever heard of him since.\n\n\t7.8                