There were once two brothers, the one rich, the other poor.

The rich one,however, gave nothing to the poor one, and he gained a scanty living bytrading in corn, and often did so badly that he had no bread for his wifeand children.

Once when he was wheeling a barrow through the forest hesaw, on one side of him, a great, bare, naked-looking mountain, and as hehad never seen it before, he stood still and stared at it with amazement.

While he was thus standing he saw a twelve great, wild men coming towardshim, and as he believed they were robbers he pushed his barrow into thethicket, climbed up a tree, and waited to see what would happen.

Thetwelve men, however, went to the mountain and cried, "Semsi mountain,Semsi mountain, open," and immediately the barren mountain opened downthe middle, and the twelve went into it, and as soon as they were within,it shut.

After a short time, however, it opened again, and the men cameforth carrying heavy sacks on their shoulders, and when they were allonce more in the daylight they said, "Semsi mountain, Semsi mountain,shut thyself;" then the mountain closed together, and there was no longerany entrance to be seen to it, and the twelve went away.

When they were quite out of sight the poor man got down from the tree, andwas curious to know what really was secretly hidden in the mountain.

So hewent up to it and said, "Semsi mountain, Semsi mountain, open," and themountain opened to him also.

The he went inside, and the whole mountainwas a cavern full of silver and gold, and behind lay great piles of pearlsand sparkling jewels, heaped up like corn.

The poor man hardly knew whatto do, and whether he might take any of these treasures for himself ornot; but at last he filled his pockets with gold, but he left the pearlsand precious stones where they were.

When he came out again he also said,"Semsi mountain, Semsi mountain, shut thyself;" and the mountain closeditself, and he went home with his barrow.

And now he had no more cause for anxiety, but could buy bread for hiswife and children with his gold, and wine into the bargain.

He livedjoyously and uprightly, gave help to the poor, and did good to everyone.

When, however, the money came to an end he went to his brother,borrowed a measure that held a bushel, and brought himself some more,but did not touch any of the most valuable things.

When for the thirdtime he wanted to fetch something, he again borrowed the measure of hisbrother.

The rich man had, however, long been envious of his brother'spossessions, and of the handsome way of living which he had set on foot,and could not understand from whence the riches came, and what his brotherwanted with the measure.

Then he thought of a cunning trick, and coveredthe bottom of the measure with pitch, and when he got the measure backa piece of money was sticking in it.

He at once went to his brother andasked him, "What hast thou been measuring in the bushel measure?" "Cornand barley," said the other.

Then he showed him the piece of money, andthreatened that if he did not tell the truth he would accuse him beforea court of justice.

The poor man then told him everything, just as ithappened.

The rich man, however, ordered his carriage to be made ready,and drove away, resolved to use the opportunity better than his brotherhad done, and to bring back with him quite different treasures.

When he came to the mountain he cried, "Semsi mountain, Semsi mountain,open." The mountain opened, and he went inside it.

There lay the treasuresall before him, and for a long time he did not know which to clutch atfirst.

At length he loaded himself with as many precious stones as hecould carry.

He wished to carry his burden outside, but, as his heart andsoul were entirely full of the treasures, he had forgotten the name ofthe mountain, and cried, "Simeli mountain, Simeli mountain, open." That,however, was not the right name, and the mountain never stirred, butremained shut.

Then he was alarmed, but the longer he thought aboutit the more his thoughts confused themselves, and his treasures wereno more of any use to him.

In the evening the mountain opened, and thetwelve robbers came in, and when they saw him they laughed, and cried out,"Bird, have we caught thee at last! Didst thou think we had never noticedthat thou hadst been in here twice? We could not catch thee then; thisthird time thou shalt not get out again!" Then he cried, "It was not I,it was my brother," but let him beg for his life and say what he would,they cut his head off.

10 Add  Simeli Mountain to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Snow-White and Rose-Red  Add  Simeli Mountain to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Snow-White and Rose-Red Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Snow-White and Rose-Red Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Snow-White and Rose-Red.

