There was once on a time a mother who had three daughters, the eldestof whom was rude and wicked, the second much better, although she hadher faults, but the youngest was a pious, good child.

The mother was,however, so strange, that it was just the eldest daughter whom she mostloved, and she could not bear the youngest.

On this account, she oftensent the poor girl out into the great forest in order to get rid of her,for she thought she would lose herself and never come back again.

Butthe guardian-angel which every good child has, did not forsake her,but always brought her into the right path again.

Once, however, theguardian-angel behaved as if he were not there, and the child could notfind her way out of the forest again.

She walked on constantly untilevening came, and then she saw a tiny light burning in the distance,ran up to it at once, and came to a little hut.

She knocked, the dooropened, and she came to a second door, where she knocked again.

An oldman, who had a snow-white beard and looked venerable, opened it for her;and he was no other than St.

Joseph.

He said quite kindly, "Come, dearchild, seat thyself on my little chair by the fire, and warm thyself; Iwill fetch thee clear water if thou art thirsty; but here in the forest,I have nothing for thee to eat but a couple of little roots, which thoumust first scrape and boil." St.

Joseph gave her the roots.

The girl scraped them clean, then shebrought a piece of pancake and the bread that her mother had givenher to take with her; mixed all together in a pan, and cooked herselfa thick soup.

When it was ready, St.

Joseph said, "I am so hungry; giveme some of thy food." The child was quite willing, and gave him more thanshe kept for herself, but God's blessing was with her, so that she wassatisfied.

When they had eaten, St.

Joseph said, "Now we will go to bed;I have, however, only one bed, lay thyself in it.

I will lie on the groundon the straw." "No," answered she, "stay in your own bed, the straw issoft enough for me." St.

Joseph, however, took the child in his arms,and carried her into the little bed, and there she said her prayers,and fell asleep.

Next morning when she awoke, she wanted to say goodmorning to St.

Joseph, but she did not see him.

Then she got up andlooked for him, but could not find him anywhere; at last she perceived,behind the door, a bag with money so heavy that she could just carry it,and on it was written that it was for the child who had slept there thatnight.

On this she took the bag, bounded away with it, and got safelyto her mother, and as she gave her mother all the money, she could nothelp being satisfied with her.

The next day, the second child also took a fancy to go into theforest.

Her mother gave her a much larger piece of pancake and bread.

Ithappened with her just as with the first child.

In the evening she cameto St.

Joseph's little hut, who gave her roots for a thick soup.

Whenit was ready, he likewise said to her, "I am so hungry, give me some ofthy food." Then the child said, "You may have your share." Afterwards,when St.

Joseph offered her his bed and wanted to lie on the straw, shereplied, "No, lie down in the bed, there is plenty of room for both ofus." St.

Joseph took her in his arms and put her in the bed, and laidhimself on the straw.

In the morning when the child awoke and looked for St.

Joseph, he hadvanished, but behind the door she found a little sack of money that wasabout as long as a hand, and on it was written that it was for the childwho had slept there last night.

So she took the little bag and ran homewith it, and took it to her mother, but she secretly kept two piecesfor herself.

The eldest daughter had by this time grown curious, and the nextmorning also insisted on going out into the forest.

Her mother gaveher pancakes with her—-as many as she wanted, and bread and cheese aswell.

In the evening she found St.

Joseph in his little hut, just as thetwo others had found him.

When the soup was ready and St.

Joseph said,"I am so hungry, give me some of thy food," the girl answered, "Waituntil I am satisfied; then if there is anything left thou shalt haveit." She ate, however, nearly the whole of it, and St.

Joseph had toscrape the dish.

Afterwards, the good old man offered her his bed, andwanted to lie on the straw.

She took it without making any opposition,laid herself down in the little bed, and left the hard straw to thewhite-haired man.

Next morning when she awoke, St.

Joseph was not tobe found, but she did not trouble herself about that.

She looked behindthe door for a money-bag.

She fancied something was lying on the ground,but as she could not very well distinguish what it was, she stooped down,and examined it closely, but it remained hanging to her nose, and whenshe got up again, she saw, to her horror, that it was a second nose,which was hanging fast to her own.

Then she began to scream and howl,but that did no good; she was forced to see it always on her nose, for itstretched out so far.

Then she ran out and screamed without stopping tillshe met St.

Joseph, at whose feet she fell and begged until, out of pity,he took the nose off her again, and even gave her two farthings.

Whenshe got home, her mother was standing before the door, and asked, "Whathast thou had given to thee?" Then she lied and said, "A great bag ofmoney, but I have lost it on the way." "Lost it!" cried the mother, "oh,but we will soon find it again," and took her by the hand, and wanted toseek it with her.

At first she began to cry, and did not wish to go, butat last she went.

On the way, however, so many lizards and snakes brokeloose on both of them, that they did not know how to save themselves.

Atlast they stung the wicked child to death, and they stung the mother inthe foot, because she had not brought her up better.

7.8 Add  St.

Joseph in the Forest to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Stories about SnakesOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  St.

Joseph in the Forest to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Stories about SnakesOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Stories about SnakesOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Stories about Snakes Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library.

