IN former times there lived an aged Queen who was a sorceress, and herdaughter was the most beautiful maiden under the sun.

The old woman,however, had no other thought than how to lure mankind to destruction,and when a wooer appeared, she said that whosoever wished to have herdaughter, must first perform a task, or die.

Many had been dazzled bythe daughter's beauty, and had actually risked this, but they never couldaccomplish what the old woman enjoined them to do, and then no mercy wasshown; they had to kneel down, and their heads were struck off.

A certainKing's son who had also heard of the maiden's beauty, said to his father,"Let me go there, I want to demand her in marriage." "Never," answered theKing; "if you were to go, it would be going to your death." On this theson lay down and was sick unto death, and for seven years he lay there,and no physician could heal him.

When the father perceived that all hopewas over, with a heavy heart he said to him, "Go thither, and try yourluck, for I know no other means of curing you." When the son heard that,he rose from his bed and was well again, and joyfully set out on his way.

And it came to pass that as he was riding across a heath, he saw fromafar something like a great heap of hay lying on the ground, and when hedrew nearer, he could see that it was the stomach of a man, who had laidhimself down there, but the stomach looked like a small mountain.

Whenthe fat man saw the traveller, he stood up and said, "If you are inneed of any one, take me into your service." The prince answered,"What can I do with such a great big man?" "Oh," said the Stout One,"this is nothing, when I stretch myself out well, I am three thousandtimes fatter." "If that's the case," said the prince, "I can make useof thee, come with me." So the Stout One followed the prince, and aftera while they found another man who was lying on the ground with hisear laid to the turf.

"What art thou doing there?" asked the King'sson.

"I am listening," replied the man.

"What art thou listening to soattentively?" "I am listening to what is just going on in the world,for nothing escapes my ears; I even hear the grass growing." "Tell me,"said the prince, "what thou hearest at the court of the old Queen whohas the beautiful daughter." Then he answered, "I hear the whizzing ofthe sword that is striking off a wooer's head." The King's son said,"I can make use of thee, come with me." They went onwards, and then sawa pair of feet lying and part of a pair of legs, but could not see therest of the body.

When they had walked on for a great distance, they cameto the body, and at last to the head also.

"Why," said the prince, "whata tall rascal thou art!" "Oh," replied the Tall One, "that is nothing atall yet; when I really stretch out my limbs, I am three thousand times astall, and taller than the highest mountain on earth.

I will gladly enteryour service, if you will take me." "Come with me," said the prince,"I can make use of thee." They went onwards and found a man sitting bythe road who had bound up his eyes.

The prince said to him, "Hast thouweak eyes, that thou canst not look at the light?" "No," replied the man,"but I must not remove the bandage, for whatsoever I look at with myeyes, splits to pieces, my glance is so powerful.

If you can use that,I shall be glad to serve you." "Come with me," replied the King's son,"I can make use of thee." They journeyed onwards and found a man whowas lying in the hot sunshine, trembling and shivering all over hisbody, so that not a limb was still.

"How canst thou shiver when thesun is shining so warm?" said the King's son.

"Alack," replied the man,"I am of quite a different nature.

The hotter it is, the colder I am,and the frost pierces through all my bones; and the colder it is, thehotter I am.

In the midst of ice, I cannot endure the heat, nor in themidst of fire, the cold." "Thou art a strange fellow," said the prince,"but if thou wilt enter my service, follow me." They travelled onwards,and saw a man standing who made a long neck and looked about him,and could see over all the mountains.

"What art thou looking at soeagerly?" said the King's son.

The man replied, "I have such sharpeyes that I can see into every forest and field, and hill and valley,all over the world." The prince said, "Come with me if thou wilt, forI am still in want of such an one." And now the King's son and his six servants came to the town where theaged Queen dwelt.

He did not tell her who he was, but said, "If you willgive me your beautiful daughter, I will perform any task you set me." Thesorceress was delighted to get such a handsome youth as this into her net,and said, "I will set thee three tasks, and if thou art able to performthem all, thou shalt be husband and master of my daughter." "What is thefirst to be?" "Thou shalt fetch me my ring which I have dropped into theRed Sea." So the King's son went home to his servants and said, "Thefirst task is not easy.

A ring is to be got out of the Red Sea.

Come,find some way of doing it." Then the man with the sharp sight said, "Iwill see where it is lying," and looked down into the water and said, "Itis sticking there, on a pointed stone." The Tall One carried them thither,and said, "I would soon get it out, if I could only see it." "Oh, is thatall!" cried the Stout One, and lay down and put his mouth to the water,on which all the waves fell into it just as if it had been a whirlpool,and he drank up the whole sea till it was as dry as a meadow.

The TallOne stooped down a little, and brought out the ring with his hand.

Thenthe King's son rejoiced when he had the ring, and took it to the oldQueen.

She was astonished, and said, "Yes, it is the right ring.

Thouhast safely performed the first task, but now comes the second.

Dost thousee the meadow in front of my palace? Three hundred fat oxen are feedingthere, and these must thou eat, skin, hair, bones, horns and all, anddown below in my cellar lie three hundred casks of wine, and these thoumust drink up as well, and if one hair of the oxen, or one little dropof the wine is left, thy life will be forfeited to me." "May I inviteno guests to this repast?" inquired the prince, "no dinner is goodwithout some company." The old woman laughed maliciously, and replied,"Thou mayst invite one for the sake of companionship, but no more." The King's son went to his servants and said to the Stout One, "Thoushalt be my guest to-day, and shalt eat thy fill." Hereupon the StoutOne stretched himself out and ate the three hundred oxen without leavingone single hair, and then he asked if he was to have nothing but hisbreakfast.

He drank the wine straight from the casks without feeling anyneed of a glass, and he licked the last drop from his finger-nails.

Whenthe meal was over, the prince went to the old woman, and told her thatthe second task also was performed.

She wondered at this and said,"No one has ever done so much before, but one task still remains," andshe thought to herself, "Thou shalt not escape me, and wilt not keep thyhead on thy shoulders! This night," said she, "I will bring my daughterto thee in thy chamber, and thou shalt put thine arms round her, but whenyou are sitting there together, beware of falling asleep.

When twelveo'clock is striking, I will come, and if she is then no longer in thinearms, thou art lost." The prince thought, "The task is easy, I will mostcertainly keep my eyes open." Nevertheless he called his servants, toldthem what the old woman had said, and remarked, "Who knows what treacherylurks behind this? Foresight is a good thing keep watch, and take carethat the maiden does not go out of my room again." When night fell, theold woman came with her daughter, and gave her into the princes's arms,and then the Tall One wound himself round the two in a circle, and theStout One placed himself by the door, so that no living creature couldenter.

There the two sat, and the maiden spake never a word, but the moonshone through the window on her face, and the prince could behold herwondrous beauty.

He did nothing but gaze at her, and was filled with loveand happiness, and his eyes never felt weary.

This lasted until eleveno'clock, when the old woman cast such a spell over all of them that theyfell asleep, and at the self-same moment the maiden was carried away.

Then they all slept soundly until a quarter to twelve, when the magiclost its power, and all awoke again.

"Oh, misery and misfortune!" criedthe prince, "now I am lost!" The faithful servants also began to lament,but the Listener said, "Be quiet, I want to listen." Then he listened foran instant and said, "She is on a rock, three hundred leagues from hence,bewailing her fate.

Thou alone, Tall One, canst help her; if thou wiltstand up, thou wilt be there in a couple of steps." "Yes," answered the Tall One, "but the one with the sharp eyes must gowith me, that we may destroy the rock." Then the Tall One took the onewith bandaged eyes on his back, and in the twinkling of an eye they wereon the enchanted rock.

The Tall One immediately took the bandage fromthe other's eyes, and he did but look round, and the rock shivered intoa thousand pieces.

Then the Tall One took the maiden in his arms, carriedher back in a second, then fetched his companion with the same rapidity,and before it struck twelve they were all sitting as they had sat before,quite merrily and happily.

When twelve struck, the aged sorceress camestealing in with a malicious face, which seemed to say, "Now he ismine!" for she believed that her daughter was on the rock three hundredleagues off.

But when she saw her in the prince's arms, she was alarmed,and said, "Here is one who knows more than I do!" She dared not make anyopposition, and was forced to give him her daughter.

But she whisperedin her ear, "It is a disgrace to thee to have to obey common people,and that thou art not allowed to choose a husband to thine own liking." On this the proud heart of the maiden was filled with anger, and shemeditated revenge.

Next morning she caused three hundred great bundlesof wood to be got together, and said to the prince that though the threetasks were performed, she would still not be his wife until some one wasready to seat himself in the midst of the wood, and bear the fire.

Shethought that none of his servants would let themselves be burnt for him,and that out of love for her, he himself would place himself upon it,and then she would be free.

But the servants said, "Every one of us hasdone something except the Frosty One, he must set to work," and theyput him in the middle of the pile, and set fire to it.

Then the firebegan to burn, and burnt for three days until all the wood was consumed,and when the flames had burnt out, the Frosty One was standing amid theashes, trembling like an aspen leaf, and saying, "I never felt such afrost during the whole course of my life; if it had lasted much longer,I should have been benumbed!" As no other pretext was to be found, the beautiful maiden was now forcedto take the unknown youth as a husband.

But when they drove away tochurch, the old woman said, "I cannot endure the disgrace," and senther warriors after them with orders to cut down all who opposed them,and bring back her daughter.

But the Listener had sharpened his ears,and heard the secret discourse of the old woman.

"What shall we do?" saidhe to the Stout One.

But he knew what to do, and spat out once or twicebehind the carriage some of the sea-water which he had drunk, and agreat sea arose in which the warriors were caught and drowned.

When thesorceress perceived that, she sent her mailed knights; but the Listenerheard the rattling of their armour, and undid the bandage from one eyeof Sharp-eyes, who looked for a while rather fixedly at the enemy'stroops, on which they all sprang to pieces like glass.

Then the youthand the maiden went on their way undisturbed, and when the two had beenblessed in church, the six servants took leave, and said to their master,"Your wishes are now satisfied, you need us no longer, we will go ourway and seek our fortunes." Half a league from the palace of the prince's father was a villagenear which a swineherd tended his herd, and when they came thither theprince said to his wife, "Do you know who I really am? I am no prince,but a herder of swine, and the man who is there with that herd, is myfather.

We two shall have to set to work also, and help him." Then healighted with her at the inn, and secretly told the innkeepers to takeaway her royal apparel during the night.

So when she awoke in the morning,she had nothing to put on, and the innkeeper's wife gave her an old gownand a pair of worsted stockings, and at the same time seemed to considerit a great present, and said, "If it were not for the sake of your husbandI should have given you nothing at all!" Then the princess believed thathe really was a swineherd, and tended the herd with him, and thought toherself, "I have deserved this for my haughtiness and pride." This lastedfor a week, and then she could endure it no longer, for she had sores onher feet.

And now came a couple of people who asked if she knew who herhusband was.

"Yes," she answered, "he is a swineherd, and has just goneout with cords and ropes to try to drive a little bargain." But they said,"Just come with us, and we will take you to him," and they took her upto the palace, and when she entered the hall, there stood her husband inkingly raiment.

But she did not recognize him until he took her in hisarms, kissed her, and said, "I suffered much for thee and now thou, too,hast had to suffer for me." And then the wedding was celebrated, and hewho has told you all this, wishes that he, too, had been present at it.

7.3 Add  The Six Servants to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Six SwansOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Six Servants to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Six SwansOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Six SwansOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Six Swans Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library.

