A shoemaker, by no fault of his own, had become so poor that at last hehad nothing left but leather for one pair of shoes.

So in the evening,he cut out the shoes which he wished to begin to make the next morning,and as he had a good conscience, he lay down quietly in his bed, commendedhimself to God, and fell asleep.

In the morning, after he had said hisprayers, and was just going to sit down to work, the two shoes stoodquite finished on his table.

He was astounded, and knew not what to sayto it.

He took the shoes in his hands to observe them closer, and theywere so neatly made that there was not one bad stitch in them, just as ifthey were intended as a masterpiece.

Soon after, a buyer came in, and asthe shoes pleased him so well, he paid more for them than was customary,and, with the money, the shoemaker was able to purchase leather for twopairs of shoes.

He cut them out at night, and next morning was about toset to work with fresh courage; but he had no need to do so, for, whenhe got up, they were already made, and buyers also were not wanting,who gave him money enough to buy leather for four pairs of shoes.

Thefollowing morning, too, he found the four pairs made; and so it went onconstantly, what he cut out in the evening was finished by the morning,so that he soon had his honest independence again, and at last became awealthy man.

Now it befell that one evening not long before Christmas,when the man had been cutting out, he said to his wife, before goingto bed, "What think you if we were to stay up to-night to see who it isthat lends us this helping hand?" The woman liked the idea, and lighted acandle, and then they hid themselves in a corner of the room, behind someclothes which were hanging up there, and watched.

When it was midnight,two pretty little naked men came, sat down by the shoemaker's table, tookall the work which was cut out before them and began to stitch, and sew,and hammer so skilfully and so quickly with their little fingers thatthe shoemaker could not turn away his eyes for astonishment.

They didnot stop until all was done, and stood finished on the table, and theyran quickly away.

Next morning the woman said, "The little men have made us rich, and wereally must show that we are grateful for it.

They run about so, and havenothing on, and must be cold.

I'll tell thee what I'll do: I will makethem little shirts, and coats, and vests, and trousers, and knit both ofthem a pair of stockings, and do thou, too, make them two little pairsof shoes." The man said, "I shall be very glad to do it;" and one night,when everything was ready, they laid their presents all together on thetable instead of the cut-out work, and then concealed themselves to seehow the little men would behave.

At midnight they came bounding in, andwanted to get to work at once, but as they did not find any leather cutout, but only the pretty little articles of clothing, they were at firstastonished, and then they showed intense delight.

They dressed themselveswith the greatest rapidity, putting the pretty clothes on, and singing, "Now we are boys so fine to see,Why should we longer cobblers be?" Then they danced and skipped and leapt over chairs and benches.

Atlast they danced out of doors.

From that time forth they came no more,but as long as the shoemaker lived all went well with him, and all hisundertakings prospered.

There was once a poor servant-girl, who was industrious and cleanly,and swept the house every day, and emptied her sweepings on the greatheap in front of the door.

One morning when she was just going back toher work, she found a letter on this heap, and as she could not read,she put her broom in the corner, and took the letter to her master andmistress, and behold it was an invitation from the elves, who askedthe girl to hold a child for them at its christening.

The girl didnot know what to do, but at length, after much persuasion, and as theytold her that it was not right to refuse an invitation of this kind,she consented.

Then three elves came and conducted her to a hollowmountain, where the little folks lived.

Everything there was small,but more elegant and beautiful than can be described.

The baby's motherlay in a bed of black ebony ornamented with pearls, the coverlids wereembroidered with gold, the cradle was of ivory, the bath of gold.

Thegirl stood as godmother, and then wanted to go home again, but the littleelves urgently entreated her to stay three days with them.

So she stayed,and passed the time in pleasure and gaiety, and the little folks did allthey could to make her happy.

At last she set out on her way home.

Thenfirst they filled her pockets quite full of money, and after that theyled her out of the mountain again.

When she got home, she wanted to beginher work, and took the broom, which was still standing in the corner, inher hand and began to sweep.

Then some strangers came out of the house,who asked her who she was, and what business she had there? And she hadnot, as she thought, been three days with the little men in the mountains,but seven years, and in the meantime her former masters had died.

A certain mother's child had been taken away out of its cradle by theelves, and a changeling with a large head and staring eyes, which woulddo nothing but eat and drink, laid in its place.

In her trouble shewent to her neighbour, and asked her advice.

The neighbour said thatshe was to carry the changeling into the kitchen, set it down on thehearth, light a fire, and boil some water in two egg-shells, which wouldmake the changeling laugh, and if he laughed, all would be over withhim.

The woman did everything that her neighbour bade her.

When she putthe egg-shells with water on the fire, the imp said, "I am as old nowas the Wester forest, but never yet have I seen any one boil anythingin an egg-shell!" And he began to laugh at it.

Whilst he was laughing,suddenly came a host of little elves, who brought the right child,set it down on the hearth, and took the changeling away with them.

This story is featured in our selection of Children's Christmas Stories and Favorite Fairy Tales.

7.5 Add  The Elves and The Shoemaker to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Enchanted StagOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Elves and The Shoemaker to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Enchanted StagOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Enchanted StagOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Enchanted Stag Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library.

