There was once a poor peasant who sat in the evening by the hearth andpoked the fire, and his wife sat and span.

Then said he, "How sad it isthat we have no children! With us all is so quiet, and in other housesit is noisy and lively." "Yes," replied the wife, and sighed, "even if we had only one, and it werequite small, and only as big as a thumb, I should be quite satisfied,and we would still love it with all our hearts." Now it so happenedthat the woman fell ill, and after seven months gave birth to a child,that was perfect in all its limbs, but no longer than a thumb.

Then saidthey, "It is as we wished it to be, and it shall be our dear child;"and because of its size, they called it Thumbling.

They did not let itwant for food, but the child did not grow taller, but remained as ithad been at the first, nevertheless it looked sensibly out of its eyes,and soon showed itself to be a wise and nimble creature, for everythingit did turned out well.

One day the peasant was getting ready to go into the forest to cut wood,when he said as if to himself, "How I wish that there was any one whowould bring the cart to me!" "Oh father," cried Thumbling, "I will soonbring the cart, rely on that; it shall be in the forest at the appointedtime." The man smiled and said, "How can that be done, thou art fartoo small to lead the horse by the reins?" "That's of no consequence,father, if my mother will only harness it, I shall sit in the horse'sear and call out to him how he is to go." "Well," answered the man,"for once we will try it." When the time came, the mother harnessed the horse, and placed Thumblingin its ear, and then the little creature cried, "Gee up, gee up!" Then it went quite properly as if with its master, and the cart went theright way into the forest.

It so happened that just as he was turninga corner, and the little one was crying, "Gee up," two strange men cametowards him.

"My word!" said one of them, "What is this? There is a cartcoming, and a driver is calling to the horse and still he is not to beseen!" "That can't be right," said the other, "we will follow the cartand see where it stops." The cart, however, drove right into the forest,and exactly to the place where the wood had been cut.

When Thumbling sawhis father, he cried to him, "Seest thou, father, here I am with the cart;now take me down." The father got hold of the horse with his left handand with the right took his little son out of the ear.

Thumbling satdown quite merrily on a straw, but when the two strange men saw him,they did not know what to say for astonishment.

Then one of them tookthe other aside and said, "Hark, the little fellow would make our fortuneif we exhibited him in a large town, for money.

We will buy him." Theywent to the peasant and said, "Sell us the little man.

He shall be welltreated with us." "No," replied the father, "he is the apple of my eye,and all the money in the world cannot buy him from me." Thumbling,however, when he heard of the bargain, had crept up the folds of hisfather's coat, placed himself on his shoulder, and whispered in his ear,"Father do give me away, I will soon come back again." Then the fatherparted with him to the two men for a handsome bit of money.

"Where wiltthou sit?" they said to him.

"Oh just set me on the rim of your hat, andthen I can walk backwards and forwards and look at the country, and stillnot fall down." They did as he wished, and when Thumbling had taken leaveof his father, they went away with him.

They walked until it was dusk,and then the little fellow said, "Do take me down, I want to come down."The man took his hat off, and put the little fellow on the ground bythe wayside, and he leapt and crept about a little between the sods,and then he suddenly slipped into a mouse-hole which he had soughtout.

"Good evening, gentlemen, just go home without me," he cried tothem, and mocked them.

They ran thither and stuck their sticks into themouse-hole, but it was all lost labour.

Thumbling crept still farther in,and as it soon became quite dark, they were forced to go home with theirvexation and their empty purses.

When Thumbling saw that they were gone, he crept back out of thesubterranean passage.

"It is so dangerous to walk on the ground in thedark," said he; "how easily a neck or a leg is broken!" Fortunately heknocked against an empty snail-shell.

"Thank God!" said he.

"In that Ican pass the night in safety," and got into it.

Not long afterwards,when he was just going to sleep, he heard two men go by, and oneof them was saying, "How shall we contrive to get hold of the richpastor's silver and gold?" "I could tell thee that," cried Thumbling,interrupting them.

"What was that?" said one of the thieves in fright,"I heard some one speaking." They stood still listening, and Thumblingspoke again, and said, "Take me with you, and I'll help you." "But where art thou?" "Just look on the ground, and observe from whencemy voice comes," he replied.

There the thieves at length found him, andlifted him up.

"Thou little imp, how wilt thou help us?" they said.

"Agreat deal," said he, "I will creep into the pastor's room through theiron bars, and will reach out to you whatever you want to have." "Comethen," they said, "and we will see what thou canst do." When they got tothe pastor's house, Thumbling crept into the room, but instantly criedout with all his might, "Do you want to have everything that is here?" Thethieves were alarmed, and said, "But do speak softly, so as not to wakenany one!" Thumbling however, behaved as if he had not understood this,and cried again, "What do you want? Do you want to have everything thatis here?" The cook, who slept in the next room, heard this and sat upin bed, and listened.

The thieves, however, had in their fright runsome distance away, but at last they took courage, and thought, "Thelittle rascal wants to mock us." They came back and whispered to him,"Come, be serious, and reach something out to us." Then Thumbling againcried as loudly as he could, "I really will give you everything, just putyour hands in." The maid who was listening, heard this quite distinctly,and jumped out of bed and rushed to the door.

The thieves took flight,and ran as if the Wild Huntsman were behind them, but as the maid couldnot see anything, she went to strike a light.

When she came to theplace with it, Thumbling, unperceived, betook himself to the granary,and the maid, after she had examined every corner and found nothing,lay down in her bed again, and believed that, after all, she had onlybeen dreaming with open eyes and ears.

Thumbling had climbed up among the hay and found a beautiful place tosleep in; there he intended to rest until day, and then go home againto his parents.

But he had other things to go through.

Truly, there ismuch affliction and misery in this world! When day dawned, the maid arosefrom her bed to feed the cows.

Her first walk was into the barn, whereshe laid hold of an armful of hay, and precisely that very one in whichpoor Thumbling was lying asleep.

He, however, was sleeping so soundlythat he was aware of nothing, and did not awake until he was in the mouthof the cow, who had picked him up with the hay.

"Ah, heavens!" cried he,"how have I got into the fulling mill?" but he soon discovered where hewas.

Then it was necessary to be careful not to let himself go between theteeth and be dismembered, but he was nevertheless forced to slip down intothe stomach with the hay.

"In this little room the windows are forgotten,"said he, "and no sun shines in, neither will a candle be brought." Hisquarters were especially unpleasing to him, and the worst was, moreand more hay was always coming in by the door, and the space grew lessand less.

Then at length in his anguish, he cried as loud as he could,"Bring me no more fodder, bring me no more fodder." The maid was justmilking the cow, and when she heard some one speaking, and saw no one,and perceived that it was the same voice that she had heard in thenight, she was so terrified that she slipped off her stool, and spiltthe milk.

She ran in great haste to her master, and said, "Oh heavens,pastor, the cow has been speaking!" "Thou art mad," replied the pastor;but he went himself to the byre to see what was there.

Hardly, howeverhad he set his foot inside when Thumbling again cried, "Bring me no morefodder, bring me no more fodder." Then the pastor himself was alarmed,and thought that an evil spirit had gone into the cow, and ordered herto be killed.

She was killed, but the stomach, in which Thumbling was,was thrown on the midden.

Thumbling had great difficulty in workinghis way; however, he succeeded so far as to get some room, but justas he was going to thrust his head out, a new misfortune occurred.

Ahungry wolf ran thither, and swallowed the whole stomach at one gulp.Thumbling did not lose courage.

"Perhaps," thought he, "the wolf willlisten to what I have got to say," and he called to him from out of hisstomach, "Dear wolf, I know of a magnificent feast for you." "Where is it to be had?" said the wolf.

"In such and such a house; thou must creep into it through thekitchen-sink, and wilt find cakes, and bacon, and sausages, and as muchof them as thou canst eat," and he described to him exactly his father'shouse.

The wolf did not require to be told this twice, squeezed himselfin at night through the sink, and ate to his heart's content in thelarder.

When he had eaten his fill, he wanted to go out again, but he hadbecome so big that he could not go out by the same way.

Thumbling hadreckoned on this, and now began to make a violent noise in the wolf'sbody, and raged and screamed as loudly as he could.

"Wilt thou be quiet,"said the wolf, "thou wilt waken up the people!" "Eh, what," replied thelittle fellow, "thou hast eaten thy fill, and I will make merry likewise,"and began once more to scream with all his strength.

At last his fatherand mother were aroused by it, and ran to the room and looked in throughthe opening in the door.

When they saw that a wolf was inside, they ranaway, and the husband fetched his axe, and the wife the scythe.

"Staybehind," said the man, when they entered the room.

"When I have givenhim a blow, if he is not killed by it, thou must cut him down and hewhis body to pieces." Then Thumbling heard his parents, voices and cried,"Dear father, I am here; I am in the wolf's body." Said the father,full of joy, "Thank God, our dear child has found us again," and badethe woman take away her scythe, that Thumbling might not be hurt withit.

After that he raised his arm, and struck the wolf such a blow onhis head that he fell down dead, and then they got knives and scissorsand cut his body open and drew the little fellow forth.

"Ah," said thefather, "what sorrow we have gone through for thy sake." "Yes father,I have gone about the world a great deal.

Thank heaven, I breathe freshair again!" "Where hast thou been, then?" "Ah, father, I have been in amouse's hole, in a cow's stomach, and then in a wolf's; now I will staywith you." "And we will not sell thee again, no, not for all the richesin the world," said his parents, and they embraced and kissed their dearThumbling.

They gave him to eat and to drink, and had some new clothesmade for him, for his own had been spoiled on his journey.

4.5 Add  Thumbling to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Thumbling as Journeyman  Add  Thumbling to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Thumbling as Journeyman Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Thumbling as Journeyman Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; Thumbling as Journeyman.

