"No, of course not. The least said about such things the better.""Don't for the world. I have told you in perfect confidence, and youare the only one to whom I have breathed it. I wouldn't have it getout for any consideration.""Give yourself no uneasiness. I shall not allude to the subject.""I merely told you because I knew you were a friend, and would letit go no farther. But would you have thought it?""I certainly am very much surprised.""So am I. But when things pass right before your eyes and ears,there is no gainsaying them.""No. Seeing is said to be believing.""Of course it is.""But, Mrs. Grimes, are you very sure that you heard aright?""I am positive, Mrs. Raynor. It occurred only an hour ago, and thewhole thing is distinctly remembered. I called in to see Mrs.Comegys, and while I was there, the bundle of goods came home. I waspresent when she opened it, and she showed me the lawn dress itcontained. There were twelve yards in it. 'I must see if there isgood measure,' she said, and she got a yard-stick and measured itoff. There were fifteen yards instead of twelve. 'How is this?' sheremarked. 'I am sure I paid for only twelve yards, and here arefifteen.' The yard-stick was applied again. There was no mistake;the lawn measured fifteen yards. 'What are you going to do with thesurplus?' I asked. 'Keep it, of course,' said Mrs. Comegys. 'Thereis just enough to make little Julia a frock. Won't she look sweet init?,' I was so confounded that I couldn't say a word. Indeed, Icould hardly look her in the face. At first I thought of calling herattention to the dishonesty of the act; but then I reflected that,as it was none of my business, I might get her ill-will for meddlingin what didn't concern me.""And you really think, then, that she meant to keep the three yardswithout paying for them?"Oh, certainly! But then I wouldn't say anything about it for theworld. I wouldn't name it, on any consideration. Of course you willnot repeat it.""No. If I cannot find any good to tell of my friends, I try torefrain from saying anything evil.""A most excellent rule, Mrs. Raynor, and one that I always follow. Inever speak evil of my friends, for it always does more harm thangood. No one can say that I ever tried to injure another.""I hope Mrs. Comegys thought better of the matter, upon reflection,"said Mrs. Raynor."So do I. But I am afraid not. Two or three little things occur tome now, that I have seen in my intercourse with her, which go tosatisfy my mind that her moral perceptions are not the best in theworld. Mrs. Comegys is a pleasant friend, and much esteemed by everyone. It could do no good to spread this matter abroad, but harm."After repeating over and over again her injunction to Mrs. Raynornot to repeat a word of what she had told her, Mrs. Grimes bade thislady, upon whom she had called, good morning, and went on her way.Ten minutes after, she was in the parlor of an acquaintance, namedMrs. Florence, entertaining her with the gossip she had picked upsince their last meeting. She had not been there long, before,lowering her voice, she said in a confidential way--"I was at Mrs. Comegys' to-day, and saw something that amazed mebeyond every thing.""Indeed!""Yes. You will be astonished when you hear it. Suppose you hadpurchased a dress and paid for a certain number of yards; and whenthe dress was sent home, you should find that the storekeeper hadmade a mistake and sent you three or four yards more than you hadsettled for. What would you do?""Send it back, of course.""Of course, so say I. To act differently would not be honest. Do youthink so?""It would not be honest for me.""No, nor for any one. Now, would you have believed it? Mrs. Comegysnot only thinks but acts differently.""You must be mistaken, certainly, Mrs. Grimes.""Seeing is believing, Mrs. Florence.""So it is said, but I could hardly believe my eyes against Mrs.Comegys' integrity of character. I think I ought to know her well,for we have been very intimate for years.""And I thought I knew her, too. But it seems that I was mistaken."Mrs. Grimes then repeated the story of the lawn dress."Gracious me! Can it be possible?" exclaimed Mrs. Florence. "I canhardly credit it.""It occurred just as I tell you. But Mrs. Florence, you musn't tellit again for the world. I have mentioned it to you in the strictestconfidence. But I need hardly say this to you, for I know howdiscreet you are.""I shall not mention it.""It could do no good.""None in the world.""Isn't it surprising, that a woman who is so well off in the worldas Mrs. Comegys, should stoop to a petty act like this?""It is, certainly.""Perhaps there is something wrong here," and Mrs. Grimes placed herfinger to her forehead and looked sober."How do you mean?" asked the friend."You've heard of people's having a dishonest monomania. Don't youremember the case of Mrs. Y----?""Very well.""She had every thing that heart could desire. Her husband was rich,and let her have as much money as she wanted. I wish we could allsay that, Mrs. Florence, don't you?""It would be very pleasant, certainly, to have as much money as wewanted.""But, notwithstanding all this, Mrs. Y---- had such a propensity totake things not her own, that she never went into a dry goods storewithout purloining something, and rarely took tea with a friendwithout slipping a teaspoon into her pocket. Mr. Y---- had a greatdeal of trouble with her, and, in several cases, paid handsomely toinduce parties disposed to prosecute her for theft, to let thematter drop. Now do you know that it has occurred to me that,perhaps, Mrs. Comegys is afflicted in this way? I shouldn't at allwonder if it were so.""Hardly.""I'm afraid it is as I suspect. A number of suspicious circumstanceshave happened when she has been about, that this would explain. Butfor your life, Mrs. Florence, don't repeat this to any mortal!""I shall certainly not speak of it, Mrs. Grimes. It is too serious amatter. I wish I had not heard of it, for I can never feel towardMrs. Comegys as I have done. She is a very pleasant woman, and onewith whom it is always agreeable and profitable to spend an hour.""It is a little matter, after all," remarked Mrs. Grimes, "and,perhaps, we treat it too seriously.""We should never think lightly of dishonest practices, Mrs. Grimes."Whoever is dishonest in little things, will be dishonest in greatthings, if a good opportunity offer. Mrs. Comegys can never be to mewhat she has been. That is impossible.""Of course you will not speak of it again.""You need have no fear of that."A few days after, Mrs. Raynor made a call upon a friend, who said toher,"Have you heard about Mrs. Comegys?""What about her?""I supposed you knew it. I've heard it from half a dozen persons.It is said that Perkins, through a mistake of one of his clerks,sent her home some fifteen or twenty yards of lawn more than she hadpaid for, and that, instead of sending it back, she kept it and madeit up for her children. Did you ever hear of such a trick for anhonest woman?""I don't think any honest woman would be guilty of such an act. Yes,I heard of it a few days ago as a great secret, and have notmentioned it to a living soul.""Secret? bless me! it is no secret. It is in every one's mouth.""Is it possible? I must say that Mrs. Grimes has been veryindiscreet.""Mrs. Grimes! Did it come from her in the first place?""Yes. She told me that she was present when the lawn came home, andsaw Mrs. Comegys measure it, and heard her say that she meant tokeep it.""Which she has done. For I saw her in the street, yesterday, with abeautiful new lawn, and her little Julia was with her, wearing oneprecisely like it.""How any woman can do so is more than I can understand.""So it is, Mrs. Raynor. Just to think of dressing your child up in afrock as good as stolen! Isn't it dreadful?""It is, indeed!""Mrs. Comegys is not an honest woman. That is clear. I am told thatthis is not the first trick of the kind of which she has beenguilty. They say that she has a natural propensity to take thingsthat are not her own.""I can hardly believe that.""Nor can I. But it's no harder to believe this than to believe thatshe would cheat Perkins out of fifteen of twenty yards of lawn. It'sa pity; for Mrs. Comegys, in every thing else, is certainly a verynice woman. In fact, I don't know any one I visit with so muchpleasure."Thus the circle of detraction widened, until there was scarcely afriend or acquaintance of Mrs. Comegys, near or remote, who had notheard of her having cheated a dry goods dealer out of several yardsof lawn. Three, it had first been alleged; but the most commonversion of the story made it fifteen or twenty. Meantime, Mrs.Comegys remained in entire ignorance of what was alleged againsther, although she noticed in two or three of her acquaintances, atrifling coldness that struck her as rather singular.One day her husband, seeing that she looked quite sober, said--"You seem quite dull to-day, dear. Don't you feel well?""Yes, I feel as well as usual, in body.""But not in mind?""I do not feel quite comfortable in mind, certainly, though I don'tknow that I have any serious cause of uneasiness.""Though a slight cause exists. May I ask what it is?""It is nothing more nor less than that I was coolly cut by an oldfriend to-day, whom I met in a store on Chesnut street. And as sheis a woman that I highly esteem, both for the excellence of hercharacter, and the agreeable qualities, as a friend, that shepossesses. I cannot but feel a little bad about it. If she were oneof that capricious class who get offended with you, once a month,for no just cause whatever, I should not care a fig. But Mrs. Markleis a woman of character, good sense and good feeling, whosefriendship I have always prized.""Was it Mrs. Markle?" said the husband, with some surprise."Yes.""What can possibly be the cause?""I cannot tell.""Have you thought over every thing?""Yes, I have turned and turned the matter in my mind, but canimagine no reason why she, of all others, could treat me coolly.""Have you never spoken of her in a way to have your wordsmisinterpreted by some evil-minded person--Mrs. Grimes, forinstance--whose memory, or moral sense, one or the other, is verydull?""I have never spoken of her to any one, except in terms of praise. Icould not do otherwise, for I look upon her as one of the mostfaultless women I know.""She has at least shown that she possesses one fault.""What is that?""If she has heard any thing against you of a character so serious asto make her wish to give up your acquaintance, she should at leasthave afforded you the chance of defending yourself before condemningyou.""I think that, myself.""It may be that she did not see you," Mr. Comegys suggested."She looked me in the face, and nodded with cold formality.""Perhaps her mind was abstracted.""It might have been so. Mine would have been very abstracted,indeed, to keep me from a more cordial recognition of a friend.""How would it do to call and see her?""I have been thinking of that. But my feelings naturally oppose it.I am not conscious of having done any thing to merit a withdrawal ofthe friendly sentiments she has held towards me; still, if shewishes to withdraw them, my pride says, let her do so.""But pride, you know, is not always the best adviser.""No. Perhaps the less regard we pay to its promptings, the better.""I think so.""It is rather awkward to go to a person and ask why you have beentreated coldly.""I know it is. But in a choice of evils, is it not always wisest tochoose the least?""But is any one's bad opinion of you, if it be not correctly formed,an evil?""Certainly it is.""I don't know. I have a kind of independence about me which says,'Let people think what they please, so you are conscious of nowrong.'""Indifference to the world's good or bad opinion is all very well,"replied the husband, "if the world will misjudge us. Still, as anything that prejudices the minds of people against us, tends todestroy our usefulness, it is our duty to take all proper care ofour reputations, even to the sacrifice of a little feeling in doingso."Thus argued with by her husband, Mrs. Comegys, after turning thematter over in her mind, finally concluded to go and see Mrs.Markle. It was a pretty hard trial for her, but urged on by a senseof right, she called upon her two or three days after having beentreated so coldly. She sent up her name by the servant. In aboutfive minutes, Mrs. Markle descended to the parlor, where her visitorwas awaiting her, and met her in a reserved and formal manner, thatwas altogether unlike her former cordiality. It was as much as Mrs.Comegys could do to keep from retiring instantly, and without aword, from the house. But she compelled herself to go through withwhat she had begun.Mrs. Markle did, indeed, offer her hand; or rather the tips of herfingers; which Mrs. Comegys, in mere reciprocation of the formality,accepted. Then came an embarrassing pause, after which the lattersaid--"I see that I was not mistaken in supposing that there was a markedcoldness in your manner at our last meeting."Mrs. Markle inclined her head slightly."Of course there is a cause for this. May I, in justice to myself aswell as others, inquire what it is?""I did not suppose you would press an inquiry on the subject,"replied Mrs. Markle. "But as you have done so, you are, of course,entitled to an answer."There came another pause, after which, with a disturbed voice, Mrs.Markle said--"For some time, I have heard a rumor in regard to you, that I couldnot credit. Of late it has been so often repeated that I felt it tobe my duty to ascertain its truth or falsehood. On tracing, withsome labor, the report to its origin, I am grieved to find that itis too true.""Please say what it is," said Mrs. Comegys, in a firm voice."It is said that you bought a dress at a dry goods store in thiscity, and that on its being sent home, there proved to be some yardsmore in the piece of goods than you paid for and that instead ofreturning what was not your own, you kept it and had it made up forone of your children."The face of Mrs. Comegys instantly became like crimson; and sheturned her head away to hide the confusion into which thisunexpected allegation had thrown her. As soon as she could commandher voice, she said--"You will, of course, give me the author of this charge.""You are entitled to know, I suppose," replied Mrs. Markle. "Theperson who originated this report is Mrs. Grimes. And she says thatshe was present when the dress was sent home. That you measured itin her presence, and that, finding there were several yards over,you declared your intention to keep it and make of it a frock foryour little girl. And, moreover, that she saw Julia wearing a frockafterwards, exactly like the pattern of the one you had, which shewell remembers. This seems to me pretty conclusive evidence. Atleast it was so to my mind, and I acted accordingly."Mrs. Comegys sat for the full space of a minute with her eyes uponthe floor, without speaking. When she looked up, the flush that hadcovered her face had gone. It was very pale, instead. Rising fromher chair, she bowed formally, and without saying a word, withdrew."Ah me! Isn't it sad?" murmured Mrs. Markle, as she heard the streetdoor close upon her visitor. "So much that is agreeable andexcellent, all dimmed by the want of principle. It seems hardlycredible that a woman, with every thing she needs, could actdishonestly for so small a matter. A few yards of lawn againstintegrity and character! What a price to set upon virtue!"Not more than half an hour after the departure of Mrs. Comegys, Mrs.Grimes called in to see Mrs. Markle."I hope," she said, shortly after she was seated, "that you won'tsay a word about what I told you a few days ago; I shouldn't haveopened my lips on the subject if you hadn't asked me about it. Ionly mentioned it in the first place to a friend in whom I had thegreatest confidence in the world. She has told some one, veryimproperly, for it was imparted to her as a secret, and in that wayit has been spread abroad. I regret it exceedingly, for I would bethe last person in the world to say a word to injure any one. I amparticularly guarded in this.""If it's the truth, Mrs. Grimes, I don't see that you need be soanxious about keeping it a secret," returned Mrs. Markle."The truth! Do you think I would utter a word that was not true?""I did not mean to infer that you would. I believe that what yousaid in regard to Mrs. Comegys was the fact.""It certainly was. But then, it will do no good to make adisturbance about it. What has made me call in to see you is this;some one told me that, in consequence of this matter, you haddropped the acquaintance of Mrs. Comegys.""It is true; I cannot associate on intimate terms with a woman wholacks honest principles.""But don't you see that this will bring matters to a head, and thatI shall be placed in a very awkward position?""You are ready to adhere to your statement in regard to Mrs.Comegys?""Oh, certainly; I have told nothing but the truth. But still, youcan see that it will make me feel exceedingly unpleasant.""Things of this kind are never very agreeable, I know, Mrs. Grimes.Still we must act as we think right, let what will follow. Mrs.Comegys has already called upon me to ask an explanation of myconduct wards her.""She has!" Mrs. Grimes seemed sadly distressed. "What did you say toher?""I told her just what I had heard.""Did she ask your author?" Mrs. Grimes was most pale with suspense."She did.""Of course you did not mention my name.""She asked the author of the charge, and I named you.""Oh dear, Mrs. Markle! I wish you hadn't done that. I shall beinvolved in a world of trouble, and the reputation of a tattler andmischief-maker. What did she say?""Not one word.""She didn't deny it?""No.""Of course she could not. Well, that is some satisfaction at least.She might have denied it, and tried make me out a liar, and therewould have been plenty to believe her word against mine. I am gladshe didn't deny it. She didn't say a word?""No.""Did she look guilty?""You would have thought so, if you had seen her.""What did she do?""She sat with her eyes upon the floor for some time, and then roseup, and without uttering a word, left the house.""I wish she had said something. It would have been a satisfaction toknow what she thought. But I suppose the poor woman was soconfounded, that she didn't know what to say.""So it appeared to me. She was completely stunned. I really pitiedher from my heart. But want of principle should never becountenanced. If we are to have social integrity, we must mark withappropriate condemnation all deviations therefrom. It wasexceedingly painful, but the path of duty was before me, and Iwalked in it without faltering."Mrs. Grimes was neither so clear-sighted, nor so well satisfied withwhat she had done, as all this. She left the house of Mrs. Marklefeeling very unhappy. Although she had been using her little unrulymember against Mrs. Comegys with due industry, she was all the whileon the most friendly terms with her, visiting at her house and beingvisited. It was only a few days, before that she had taken tea andspent an evening with her. Not that Mrs. Grimes was deliberatelyhypocritical, but she had a free tongue, and, like too many insociety, more cautious about what they said than she, much betterpleased to see evil than good in a neighbour. There are very few ofus, perhaps, who have not something of this fault--an exceedinglybad fault, by the way. It seems to arise from a consciousness of ourown imperfections and the pleasure we feel in making the discoverythat others are as bad, if not worse than we are.Two days after Mrs. Comegys had called on Mrs. Markle to ask forexplanations, the latter received a note in the following words:"MADAM.--I have no doubt you have acted according to your own viewsof right in dropping as suddenly as you have done, the acquaintanceof an old friend. Perhaps, if you had called upon me and askedexplanations, you might have acted a little differently. My presentobject in addressing you is to ask, as a matter of justice, that youwill call at my house to-morrow at twelve o'clock. I think that I amentitled to speak a word in my own defense. After you have heardthat I shall not complain of any course you may think it right topursue."ANNA COMEGYS."Mrs. Markle, could do no less than call as she had been desired to.At twelve o'clock she rang the bell at Mrs. Comegys' door, and wasshown into the parlor, where, to her no small surprise, she foundabout twenty ladies, most of them acquaintances, assembled, Mrs.Grimes among the number. In about ten minutes Mrs. Comegys came intothe room, her countenance wearing a calm but sober aspect. She bowedslightly, but was not cordial toward, or familiar with, any onepresent. Without a pause she said--"Ladies, I have learned within a few days, very greatly to mysurprise and grief, that there is a report circulated among myfriends, injurious to my character as a woman of honest principles.I have taken some pains to ascertain those with whom the report isfamiliar, and have invited all such to be here to-day. I learn fromseveral sources, that the report originated with Mrs. Grimes, andthat she has been very industrious in circulating it to my injury.""Perhaps you wrong Mrs. Grimes there," spoke up Mrs. Markle. "Shedid not mention it to me until I inquired of her if the report wastrue. And then she told me that she had never told it but to asingle person, in confidence, and that she had inadvertently alludedto it, and thus it became a common report. So I think that Mrs.Grimes cannot justly be charged with having sought to circulate thematter to your injury.""Very well, we will see how far that statement is correct," saidMrs. Comegys. "Did she mention the subject to you, Mrs. Raynor?""She did," replied Mrs. Raynor. "But in strict confidence, andenjoining it upon me not to mention it to any one, as she had nowish to injure you.""Did you tell it to any one?""No. It was but a little while afterward that it was told to me bysome one else.""Was it mentioned to you, Mrs. Florence?" proceeded Mrs. Comegys,turning to another of the ladies present."It was, ma'am.""By Mrs. Grimes?""Yes, ma'am.""In confidence, I suppose?""I was requested to say nothing about it, for fear that it mightcreate an unfavorable impression in regard to you.""Very well; there are two already. How was it in your case, Mrs.Wheeler?"This lady answered as the others had done. The question was then putto each lady in the room, when it appeared that out of the twenty,fifteen had received their information on the subject from Mrs.Grimes, and that upon every one secrecy had been enjoined, althoughnot in every case maintained."So it seems, Mrs. Markle," said Mrs. Comegys, after she hadfinished her inquiries, "that Mrs. Grimes has, as I alleged,industriously circulated this matter to my injury.""It certainly appears so," returned Mrs. Markle, coldly.Thus brought into a corner, Mrs. Grimes bristled up like certainanimals, which are good at running and skulking, but which, whenfairly trapped, fight desperately."Telling it to a thousand is not half as bad as doing it, Mrs.Comegys," she said, angrily. "You needn't try to screen yourselffrom the consequences of your wrong doings, by raising a hue and cryagainst me. Go to the fact, madam! Go to the fact, and standalongside of what you have done.""I have no hesitation about doing that, Mrs. Grimes. Pray, what haveI done?""It is very strange that you should ask, madam.""But I am charged, I learn, with having committed a crime againstsociety; and you are the author of the charge. What is the crime?""If it is any satisfaction to you, I will tell you. I was at yourhouse when the pattern of the lawn dress you now have on was senthome. You measured it in my presence, and there were several yardsin it more than you had bought and paid for"--"How many?"Mrs. Grimes looked confused, and stammered out, "I do not nowexactly remember.""How many did she tell you, Mrs. Raynor?""She said there were three yards.""And you, Mrs. Fisher?""Six yards.""And you, Mrs. Florence?""Fifteen yards, I think.""Oh, no, Mrs. Florence; you are entirely mistaken. You misunderstoodme," said Mrs. Grimes, in extreme perturbation."Perhaps so. But that is my present impression," replied Mrs.Florence."That will do," said Mrs. Comegys. "Mrs. Grimes can now go on withher answer to my inquiry. I will remark, however, that the overpluswas just two yards.""Then you admit that the lawn overran what you had paid for?""Certainly I do. It overran just two yards.""Very well. One yard or a dozen, the principle is just the same. Iasked you what you meant to do with it, and you replied, 'keep it,of course.' Do you deny that?""No. It is very likely that I did say so, for it was my intention tokeep it.""Without paying for it?" asked Mrs. Markle.Mrs. Comegys looked steadily into the face of her interrogator forsome moments, a flush upon her cheek, an indignant light in her eye.Then, without replying to the question, she stepped to the wall andrang the parlor bell. In a few moments a servant came in."Ask the gentleman in the dining-room if he will be kind enough tostep here." In a little while a step was heard along the passage,and then a young man entered."You are a clerk in Mr. Perkins' store?" said Mrs. Comegys."Yes, ma'am.""You remember my buying this lawn dress at your store?""Very well, ma'am. I should forget a good many incidents before Iforgot that.""What impressed it upon your memory?""This circumstance. I was very much hurried at the time when youbought it, and in measuring it off, made a mistake against myself oftwo yards. There should have been four dresses in the piece. One hadbeen sold previous to yours. Not long after your dress had been senthome, two ladies came into the store and chose each a dress from thepattern. On measuring the piece, I discovered that it was two yardsshort, and lost the sale of the dresses in consequence, as theladies wished them alike. An hour afterward you called to say that Ihad made a mistake and sent you home two yards more than you hadpaid for; but that as you liked the pattern very much, you wouldkeep it and buy two yards more for a dress for your little girl.""Yes; that is exactly the truth in regard to the dress. I am obligedto you, Mr. S----, for the trouble I have given you. I will not keepyou any longer."The young man bowed and withdrew.The ladies immediately gathered around Mrs. Comegys, with a thousandapologies for having for a moment entertained the idea that she hadbeen guilty of wrong, while Mrs. Grimes took refuge in a flood oftears."I have but one cause of complaint against you all," said theinjured lady, "and it is this. A charge of so serious a natureshould never have been made a subject of common report without mybeing offered a chance to defend myself. As for Mrs. Grimes, I can'treadily understand how she fell into the error she did. But shenever would have fallen into it if she had not been more willing tothink evil than good of her friends. I do not say this to hurt her;but to state a truth that it may be well for her, and perhaps someof the rest of us, to lay to heart. It is a serious thing to speakevil of another, and should never be done except on the mostunequivocal evidence. It never occurred to me to say to Mrs. Grimesthat I would pay for the lawn; that I supposed she or any one elsewould have inferred, when I said I would keep it."A great deal was said by all parties, and many apologies were made.Mrs. Grimes was particularly humble, and begged all present toforgive and forget what was past. She knew, she said, that she wasapt to talk; it was a failing with her which she would try tocorrect. But that she didn't mean to do any one harm.As to the latter averment, it can be believed or not as suits everyone's fancy. All concerned in this affair felt that they hadreceived a lesson they would not soon forget. And we doubt not, thatsome of our readers might lay it to heart with great advantage tothemselves and benefit to others.7.7 Add  Don't Mention It to your library.Return to the T.S. Arthur library, or . . . 