A certain father had two sons, the elder of whom was smart and sensible, and could do everything, but the younger was stupid and could neither learn nor understand anything, and when people saw him they said,  When anything had to be done, it was always the elder who was forced to do it; but if his father bade him fetch anything when it was late, or in the night-time, and the way led through the churchyard, or any other dismal place, he answered  for he was afraid. Or when stories were told by the fire at night which made the flesh creep, the listeners sometimes said  The younger sat in a corner and listened with the rest of them, and could not imagine what they could mean.  thought he. \n\n\tNow it came to pass that his father said to him one day   he replied,  The elder brother smiled when he heard that, and thought to himself, \n\n\tThe father sighed, and answered him \n\n\tSoon after this the sexton came to the house on a visit, and the father bewailed his trouble, and told him how his younger son was so backward in every respect that he knew nothing and learnt nothing.  said he,   replied the sexton,  The father was glad to do it, for he thought,  The sexton therefore took him into his house, and he had to ring the bell. After a day or two, the sexton awoke him at midnight, and bade him arise and go up into the church tower and ring the bell.  thought he, and secretly went there before him; and when the boy was at the top of the tower and turned round, and was just going to take hold of the bell rope, he saw a white figure standing on the stairs opposite the sounding hole.  cried he, but the figure made no reply, and did not move or stir.  cried the boy, \n\n\tThe sexton, however, remained standing motionless that the boy might think he was a ghost. The boy cried a second time,  The sexton thought,  uttered no sound and stood as if he were made of stone. Then the boy called to him for the third time, and as that was also to no purpose, he ran against him and pushed the ghost down the stairs, so that it fell down ten steps and remained lying there in a corner. Thereupon he rang the bell, went home, and without saying a word went to bed, and fell asleep. The sexton's wife waited a long time for her husband, but he did not come back. At length she became uneasy, and wakened the boy, and asked,   replied the boy,  The woman ran away and found her husband, who was lying moaning in the corner, and had broken his leg.\n\n\tShe carried him down, and then with loud screams she hastened to the boy's father.  cried she,  The father was terrified, and ran thither and scolded the boy.  said he,   he replied,   said the father, \n\n\t  spake the father,  \n\n\tWhen day dawned, therefore, the boy put his fifty thalers into his pocket, and went forth on the great highway, and continually said to himself,  Then a man approached who heard this conversation which the youth was holding with himself, and when they had walked a little farther to where they could see the gallows, the man said to him,   answered the youth,  Then the youth went to the gallows, sat down below it, and waited till evening came. And as he was cold, he lighted himself a fire, but at midnight the wind blew so sharply that in spite of his fire, he could not get warm. And as the wind knocked the hanged men against each other, and they moved backwards and forwards, he thought to himself  And as he felt pity for them, he raised the ladder, and climbed up, unbound one of them after the other, and brought down all seven. Then he stirred the fire, blew it, and set them all round it to warm themselves. But they sat there and did not stir, and the fire caught their clothes. So he said,  The dead men, however, did not hear, but were quite silent, and let their rags go on burning. On this he grew angry, and said,  and he hung them up again each in his turn. Then he sat down by his fire and fell asleep, and the next morning the man came to him and wanted to have the fifty thalers, and said,   answered he,  Then the man saw that he would not get the fifty thalers that day, and went away saying, \n\n\tThe youth likewise went his way, and once more began to mutter to himself,  A waggoner who was striding behind him heard that and asked,   answered the youth. Then the waggoner asked,       replied the youth,   said the waggoner.  The youth went with the waggoner, and in the evening they arrived at an inn where they wished to pass the night. Then at the entrance of the room the youth again said quite loudly,  The host who heard this, laughed and said,   said the hostess, \n\n\tBut the youth said,  He let the host have no rest, until the latter told him, that not far from thence stood a haunted castle where any one could very easily learn what shuddering was, if he would but watch in it for three nights. The King had promised that he who would venture should have his daughter to wife, and she was the most beautiful maiden the sun shone on. Great treasures likewise lay in the castle, which were guarded by evil spirits, and these treasures would then be freed, and would make a poor man rich enough. Already many men had gone into the castle, but as yet none had come out again. Then the youth went next morning to the King and said if he were allowed he would watch three nights in the haunted castle. The King looked at him, and as the youth pleased him, he said,  Then he answered,  The King had these things carried into the castle for him during the day. When night was drawing near, the youth went up and made himself a bright fire in one of the rooms, placed the cutting-board and knife beside it, and seated himself by the turning-lathe.  said he,  Towards midnight he was about to poke his fire, and as he was blowing it, something cried suddenly from one corner,   cried he,  And when he had said that, two great black cats came with one tremendous leap and sat down on each side of him, and looked savagely at him with their fiery eyes. After a short time, when they had warmed themselves, they said,   he replied,  Then they stretched out their claws.  said he,  Thereupon he seized them by the throats, put them on the cutting-board and screwed their feet fast.  said he,  and he struck them dead and threw them out into the water. But when he had made away with these two, and was about to sit down again by his fire, out from every hole and corner came black cats and black dogs with red-hot chains, and more and more of them came until he could no longer stir, and they yelled horribly, and got on his fire, pulled it to pieces, and tried to put it out. He watched them for a while quietly, but at last when they were going too far, he seized his cutting-knife, and cried,  and began to cut them down. Part of them ran away, the others he killed, and threw out into the fish-pond. When he came back he fanned the embers of his fire again and warmed himself. And as he thus sat, his eyes would keep open no longer, and he felt a desire to sleep. Then he looked round and saw a great bed in the corner.  said he, and got into it. When he was just going to shut his eyes, however, the bed began to move of its own accord, and went over the whole of the castle.  said he,  Then the bed rolled on as if six horses were harnessed to it, up and down, over thresholds and steps, but suddenly hop, hop, it turned over upside down, and lay on him like a mountain. But he threw quilts and pillows up in the air, got out and said,  and lay down by his fire, and slept till it was day. In the morning the King came, and when he saw him lying there on the ground, he thought the evil spirits had killed him and he was dead. Then said he,  The youth heard it, got up, and said,  Then the King was astonished, but very glad, and asked how he had fared.  answered he;  Then he went to the innkeeper, who opened his eyes very wide, and said,   said he, \n\n\tThe second night he again went up into the old castle, sat down by the fire, and once more began his old song,  When midnight came, an uproar and noise of tumbling about was heard; at first it was low, but it grew louder and louder. Then it was quiet for awhile, and at length with a loud scream, half a man came down the chimney and fell before him.  cried he,  Then the uproar began again, there was a roaring and howling, and the other half fell down likewise.  said he,  When he had done that and looked round again, the two pieces were joined together, and a frightful man was sitting in his place.  said the youth,  The man wanted to push him away; the youth, however, would not allow that, but thrust him off with all his strength, and seated himself again in his own place. Then still more men fell down, one after the other; they brought nine dead men's legs and two skulls, and set them up and played at nine-pins with them. The youth also wanted to play and said    replied he,  Then he took the skulls and put them in the lathe and turned them till they were round.  said he.  He played with them and lost some of his money, but when it struck twelve, everything vanished from his sight. He lay down and quietly fell asleep. Next morning the King came to inquire after him.  asked he.  he answered,    said he, \n\n\tThe third night he sat down again on his bench and said quite sadly,  When it grew late, six tall men came in and brought a coffin. Then said he,  and he beckoned with his finger, and cried  They placed the coffin on the ground, but he went to it and took the lid off, and a dead man lay therein. He felt his face, but it was cold as ice.  said he,  and went to the fire and warmed his hand and laid it on the dead man's face, but he remained cold. Then he took him out, and sat down by the fire and laid him on his breast and rubbed his arms that the blood might circulate again. As this also did no good, he thought to himself  and carried him to the bed, covered him over and lay down by him. After a short time the dead man became warm too, and began to move. Then said the youth,  The dead man, however, got up and cried, \n\n\t said he,  and he took him up, threw him into it, and shut the lid. Then came the six men and carried him away again.  said he. \n\n\tThen a man entered who was taller than all others, and looked terrible. He was old, however, and had a long white beard.  cried he,   replied the youth.   said the fiend.   said the old man.  Then he led him by dark passages to a smith's forge, took an axe, and with one blow struck an anvil into the ground.  said the youth, and went to the other anvil. The old man placed himself near and wanted to look on, and his white beard hung down. Then the youth seized the axe, split the anvil with one blow, and struck the old man's beard in with it.  said the youth.  Then he seized an iron bar and beat the old man till he moaned and entreated him to stop, and he would give him great riches. The youth drew out the axe and let him go. The old man led him back into the castle, and in a cellar showed him three chests full of gold.  said he,  In the meantime it struck twelve, and the spirit disappeared; the youth, therefore, was left in darkness.  said he, and felt about, found the way into the room, and slept there by his fire. Next morning the King came and said   he answered;   said the King,   said he, \n\n\tThen the gold was brought up and the wedding celebrated; but howsoever much the young king loved his wife, and however happy he was, he still said always  And at last she was angry at this. Her waiting-maid said,  She went out to the stream which flowed through the garden, and had a whole bucketful of gudgeons brought to her. At night when the young king was sleeping, his wife was to draw the clothes off him and empty the bucketful of cold water with the gudgeons in it over him, so that the little fishes would sprawl about him. When this was done, he woke up and cried \n\n\t7.8                