There was once on a time a man who was called Frederick and a woman called Catherine, who had married each other and lived together as young married folks. One day Frederick said,   answered Kate,  Therefore when dinner-time drew near she got a sausage out of the chimney, put it in the frying-pan, put some butter to it, and set it on the fire. The sausage began to fry and to hiss, Catherine stood beside it and held the handle of the pan, and had her own thoughts as she was doing it. Then it occurred to her,  So she set the frying-pan safely on the fire, took a can, and went down into the cellar to draw beer. The beer ran into the can and Kate watched it, and then she thought,  And in a trice she was up the cellar-steps again, but the Spitz had the sausage in its mouth already, and trailed it away on the ground. But Catherine, who was not idle, set out after it, and chased it a long way into the field; the dog, however, was swifter than Catherine and did not let the sausage journey easily, but skipped over the furrows with it.  said Kate, and turned round, and as she had run till she was weary, she walked quietly and comfortably, and cooled herself. During this time the beer was still running out of the cask, for Kate had not turned the tap. And when the can was full and there was no other place for it, it ran into the cellar and did not stop until the whole cask was empty. As soon as Kate was on the steps she saw the mischance.  she cried.  She thought for a while, and at last she remembered that up in the garret was still standing a sack of the finest wheat flour from the last fair, and she would fetch that down and strew it over the beer.  said she,  and she climbed up to the garret and carried the sack below, and threw it straight down on the can of beer, which she knocked over, and Frederick's draught swam also in the cellar.  said Kate,  and she strewed the meal over the whole cellar. When it was done she was heartily delighted with her work, and said,  At mid-day home came Frederick:   she answered,  Said Frederick,   The man thought,  Now he had got together a good number of thalers which he changed into gold, and said to Catherine,  Said she,  And when Frederick was gone some pedlars came into the village who had cheap earthen-bowls and pots, and asked the young woman if there was nothing she wanted to bargain with them for?  said Catherine,    The rogues went thither, dug and found pure gold. Then they laid hold of it, ran away, and left their pots and bowls behind in the house. Catherine though she must use her new things, and as she had no lack in the kitchen already without these, she knocked the bottom out of every pot, and set them all as ornaments on the paling which went round about the house. When Frederick came and saw the new decorations, he said,    said Frederick,   said she, \n\n\tCatherine stood for a while and bethought to herself; then she said,   said Frederick,   They set out, and as Frederick was the better walker, Catherine followed him.  thought she,  Then she came to a hill where there were deep ruts on both sides of the road.  said Catherine,  and in her heart's compassion she took her butter and smeared the ruts right and left, that they might not be so hurt by the wheels, and as she was thus bending down in her charity, one of the cheeses rolled out of her pocket down the hill. Said Catherine,  So she took another cheese and rolled it down. But the cheeses did not come back, so she let a third run down, thinking.  As all three stayed away she said,  But the fourth did no better than the third. Then Catherine was angry, and threw down the fifth and sixth as well, and these were her last. She remained standing for some time watching for their coming, but when they still did not come, she said,  Catherine went on and found Frederick, who was standing waiting for her because he wanted something to eat.  said he. She gave him the dry bread.  asked the man.  said Catherine,  Said Frederick,   Then they ate the dry bread together, and Frederick said,    Catherine went back and thought,  Then she bolted the upper half of the door fast, but unhinged the lower door, and took it on her back, believing that when she had placed the door in security the house must be well taken care of. Catherine took her time on the way, and thought,  When she had once reached him she said,   said he,  \n\n\tAnd now they went into the forest, and sought the rogues, but did not find them. At length as it grew dark they climbed into a tree and resolved to spend the night there. Scarcely, however, had they sat down at the top of it than the rascals came thither who carry away with them what does not want to go, and find things before they are lost. They sat down under the very tree in which Frederick and Catherine were sitting, lighted a fire, and were about to share their booty. Frederick got down on the other side and collected some stones together. Then he climbed up again with them, and wished to throw them at the thieves and kill them. The stones, however, did not hit them, and the knaves cried,  Catherine still had the door on her back, and as it pressed so heavily on her, she thought it was the fault of the dried pears, and said,   he replied,    Then the dried pears rolled down between the branches, and the rascals below said, \n\n\tA short time afterwards, as the door was still heavy, Catherine said,     So she emptied out the vinegar, and it besprinkled the robbers. They said amongst themselves,  At length Catherine thought,  and said,       Then it fell down with a violent clatter, and the rascals below cried,  and they ran away and left everything behind them. Early next morning, when the two came down they found all their gold again, and carried it home.\n\n\tWhen they were once more at home, Frederick said,   When Catherine got into the field, she said to herself,  Then Catherine ate and eating made her sleepy, and she began to cut, and half in a dream cut all her clothes to pieces, her apron, her gown, and her shift. When Catherine awoke again after a long sleep she was standing there half-naked, and said to herself,  In the meantime night came, and Catherine ran into the village, knocked at her husband's window, and cried, \n\n\t   replied Frederick, \n\n\tSaid she,  and ran away.\n\n\tOutside Catherine found some vagabonds who were going to steal. Then she went to them and said,  The rascals thought that she knew the situation of the place, and were willing. Catherine went in front of the houses, and cried,  The thieves thought to themselves,  and wished themselves once more rid of Catherine. Then they said to her,  Catherine went to the ground, and began to pull them up, but was so idle that she did not gather them together. Then a man came by, saw her, and stood still and thought that it was the devil who was thus rooting amongst the turnips. He ran away into the village to the pastor, and said,   answered the pastor,  Said the man,  and he carried him out on his back. And when they came to the ground, Catherine arose and stood up her full height.  cried the pastor, and both hurried away, and in his great fright the pastor could run better with his lame foot than the man who had carried him on his back could do with his sound one.\n\n\t5.1                