A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse, and had said so much to her about the great love and friendship she felt for her, that at length the mouse agreed that they should live and keep house together.  said the cat,  The good advice was followed, and a pot of fat was bought, but they did not know where to put it. At length, after much consideration, the cat said,  So the pot was placed in safety, but it was not long before the cat had a great yearning for it, and said to the mouse,   answered the mouse,  All this, however, was untrue; the cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to be godmother. She went straight to the church, stole to the pot of fat, began to lick at it, and licked the top of the fat off. Then she took a walk upon the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities, and then stretched herself in the sun, and licked her lips whenever she thought of the pot of fat, and not until it was evening did she return home.  said the mouse,   answered the cat.   said the cat quite coolly.  cried the mouse,   said the cat, \n\n\tBefore long the cat was seized by another fit of longing. She said to the mouse,  The good mouse consented, but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church, and devoured half the pot of fat.  said she, and was quite satisfied with her day's work. When she went home the mouse inquired,   answered the cat. \n\n\tThe cat's mouth soon began to water for some more licking.  said she,   answered the mouse,   said the cat,  During the cat's absence the mouse cleaned the house, and put it in order but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat.  said she to herself, and well filled and fat she did not return home till night. The mouse at once asked what name had been given to the third child.  said the cat.   cried the mouse,  and she shook her head, curled herself up, and lay down to sleep.\n\n\tFrom this time forth no one invited the cat to be god-mother, but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside, the mouse thought of their provision, and said,   answered the cat,  They set out on their way, but when they arrived, the pot of fat certainly was still in its place, but it was empty.  said the mouse,   cried the cat,   was already on the poor mouse's lips; scarcely had she spoken it before the cat sprang on her, seized her, and swallowed her down. Verily, that is the way of the world.\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t