

	Then they journeyed onwards, and came to a kingdom where they heard that the King's daughter lay sick unto death. 'Hollo, brother!' said the soldier to St. Peter, 'this is a chance for us; if we can heal her we shall be provided for, for life!' But St. Peter was not half quick enough for him, 'Come, lift your legs, my dear brother,' said he, 'that we may get there in time.' But St. Peter walked slower and slower, though Brother Lustig did all he could to drive and push him on, and at last they heard that the princess was dead. 'Now we are done for!' said Brother Lustig; 'that comes of thy sleepy way of walking!' 'Just be quiet,' answered St. Peter, 'I can do more than cure sick people; I can bring dead ones to life again.' 'Well, if thou canst do that,' said Brother Lustig, 'it's all right, but thou shouldst earn at least half the kingdom for us by that.' Then they went to the royal palace, where every one was in great grief, but St. Peter told the King that he would restore his daughter to life. He was taken to her, and said, 'Bring me a kettle and some water,' and when that was brought, he bade everyone go out, and allowed no one to remain with him but Brother Lustig. Then he cut off all the dead girl's limbs, and threw them in the water, lighted a fire beneath the kettle, and boiled them. And when the flesh had fallen away from the bones, he took out the beautiful white bones, and laid them on a table, and arranged them together in their natural order. When he had done that, he stepped forward and said three times, 'In the name of the holy Trinity, dead woman, arise.' And at the third time, the princess arose, living, healthy and beautiful. Then the King was in the greatest joy, and said to St. Peter, 'Ask for thy reward; even if it were half my kingdom, I would give it thee.' But St. Peter said, 'I want nothing for it.' 'Oh, thou tomfool!' thought Brother Lustig to himself, and nudged his comrade's side, and said, 'Don't be so stupid! If thou hast no need of anything, I have.' St. Peter, however, would have nothing, but as the King saw that the other would very much like to have something, he ordered his treasurer to fill Brother Lustig's knapsack with gold. Then they went on their way, and when they came to a forest, St. Peter said to Brother Lustig, 'Now, we will divide the gold.' 'Yes,' he replied, 'we will.' So St. Peter divided the gold, and divided it into three heaps. Brother Lustig thought to himself, 'What craze has he got in his head now? He is making three shares, and there are only two of us!' But St. Peter said, 'I have divided it exactly; there is one share for me, one for thee, and one for him who ate the lamb's heart.'