

	Brother Lustig travelled about with his money, and squandered and wasted what he had as before. When at last he had no more than four kreuzers, he passed by an inn and thought, 'The money must go,' and ordered three kreuzers' worth of wine and one kreuzer's worth of bread for himself. As he was sitting there drinking, the smell of roast goose made its way to his nose. Brother Lustig looked about and peeped, and saw that the host had two geese standing in the oven. Then he remembered that his comrade had said that whatsoever he wished to have in his knapsack should be there, so he said, 'Oh, ho! I must try that with the geese.' So he went out, and when he was outside the door, he said, 'I wish those two roasted geese out of the oven and in my knapsack,' and when he had said that, he unbuckled it and looked in, and there they were inside it. 'Ah, that's right!' said he, 'now I am a made man!' and went away to a meadow and took out the roast meat. When he was in the midst of his meal, two journeymen came up and looked at the second goose, which was not yet touched, with hungry eyes. Brother Lustig thought to himself, 'One is enough for me,' and called the two men up and said, 'Take the goose, and eat it to my health.' They thanked him, and went with it to the inn, ordered themselves a half bottle of wine and a loaf, took out the goose which had been given them, and began to eat. The hostess saw them and said to her husband, 'Those two are eating a goose; just look and see if it is not one of ours, out of the oven.' The landlord ran thither, and behold the oven was empty! 'What!' cried he, 'you thievish crew, you want to eat goose as cheap as that? Pay for it this moment; or I will wash you well with green hazel-sap.' The two said, 'We are no thieves, a discharged soldier gave us the goose, outside there in the meadow.' 'You shall not throw dust in my eyes that way! the soldier was here but he went out by the door, like an honest fellow. I looked after him myself; you are the thieves and shall pay!' But as they could not pay, he took a stick, and cudgeled them out of the house.