

	Catherine stood for a while and bethought to herself; then she said, 'Listen, Frederick, we will soon get the gold back again, we will run after the thieves.' 'Come, then,' said Frederick, 'we will try it; but take with you some butter and cheese that we may have something to eat on the way.' 'Yes, Frederick, I will take them.' They set out, and as Frederick was the better walker, Catherine followed him. 'It is to my advantage,' thought she, 'when we turn back I shall be a little way in advance.' Then she came to a hill where there were deep ruts on both sides of the road. 'There one can see,' said Catherine, 'how they have torn and skinned and galled the poor earth, it will never be whole again as long as it lives,' and in her heart's compassion she took her butter and smeared the ruts right and left, that they might not be so hurt by the wheels, and as she was thus bending down in her charity, one of the cheeses rolled out of her pocket down the hill. Said Catherine, 'I have made my way once up here, I will not go down again; another may run and fetch it back.' So she took another cheese and rolled it down. But the cheeses did not come back, so she let a third run down, thinking. 'Perhaps they are waiting for company, and do not like to walk alone.' As all three stayed away she said, 'I do not know what that can mean, but it may perhaps be that the third has not found the way, and has gone wrong, I will just send the fourth to call it.' But the fourth did no better than the third. Then Catherine was angry, and threw down the fifth and sixth as well, and these were her last. She remained standing for some time watching for their coming, but when they still did not come, she said, 'Oh, you are good folks to send in search of death, you stay a fine long time away! Do you think I will wait any longer for you? I shall go my way, you may run after me; you have younger legs than I.' Catherine went on and found Frederick, who was standing waiting for her because he wanted something to eat. 'Now just let us have what you have brought with you,' said he. She gave him the dry bread. 'Where have you the butter and the cheeses?' asked the man. 'Ah, Freddy,' said Catherine, 'I smeared the cart-ruts with the butter and the cheeses will come soon; one ran away from me, so I sent the others after to call it.' Said Frederick, 'You should not have done that, Catherine, to smear the butter on the road, and let the cheeses run down the hill!' 'Really, Frederick, you should have told me.' Then they ate the dry bread together, and Frederick said, 'Catherine, did you make the house safe when you came away?' 'No, Frederick, you should have told me to do it before.' 'Then go home again, and make the house safe before we go any farther, and bring with you something else to eat. I will wait here for you.' Catherine went back and thought, 'Frederick wants something more to eat, he does not like butter and cheese, so I will take with me a handkerchief full of dried pears and a pitcher of vinegar for him to drink.' Then she bolted the upper half of the door fast, but unhinged the lower door, and took it on her back, believing that when she had placed the door in security the house must be well taken care of. Catherine took her time on the way, and thought, 'Frederick will rest himself so much the longer.' When she had once reached him she said, 'Here is the house-door for you, Frederick, and now you can take care of the house yourself.' 'Oh, heavens,' said he, 'what a wise wife I have! She takes the under-door off the hinges that everything may run in, and bolts the upper one. It is now too late to go back home again, but since you have brought the door here, you shall just carry it farther.' 'I will carry the door, Frederick, but the dried pears and the vinegar-jug will be too heavy for me, I will hang them on the door, it may carry them.'