Hans had served his master for seven years, so he said to him,  The master answered,  and he gave Hans a piece of gold as big as his head. Hans pulled his handkerchief out of his pocket, wrapped up the lump in it, put it on his shoulder, and set out on the way home.\n\n\tAs he went on, always putting one foot before the other, he saw a horseman trotting quickly and merrily by on a lively horse.  said Hans quite loud, \n\n\tThe rider, who had heard him, stopped and called out, \n\n\t answered he, \n\n\t said the rider, \n\n\t said Hans, \n\n\tThe rider got down, took the gold, and helped Hans up; then gave him the bridle tight in his hands and said, Jup! Jup!Jup! Jup!It is a poor joke, this riding, especially when one gets hold of a mare like this, that kicks and throws one off, so that one has a chance of breaking one's neck. Never again will I mount it. Now I like your cow, for one can walk quietly behind her, and have, over and above, one's milk, butter and cheese every day without fail. What would I not give to have such a cow.Well,if it would give you so much pleasure, I do not mind giving the cow for the horse.If only I have a morsel of bread—-and that can hardly fail me—-I can eat butter and cheese with it as often as I like; if I am thirsty, I can milk my cow and drink the milk. Good heart, what more can I want?I can find a cure for this,I will milk the cow now and refresh myself with the milk.What sort of a trick is this?Take a drink and refresh yourself. The cow will certainly give no milk, it is an old beast; at the best it is only fit for the plough, or for the butcher.Well, well,who would have thought it? Certainly it is a fine thing when one can kill a beast like that at home; what meat one has! But I do not care much for beef, it is not juicy enough for me. A young pig like that now is the thing to have, it tastes quite different; and then there are the sausages!Hark ye, Hans,out of love for you I will exchange, and will let you have the pig for the cow.Heaven repay you for your kindness!Just lift her,how heavy she is—-she has been fattened up for the last eight weeks. Whoever has a bit of her when she is roasted will have to wipe the fat from both sides of his mouth.Yes,she is a good weight, but my pig is no bad one.Look here,it may not be all right with your pig. In the village through which I passed, the Mayor himself had just had one stolen out of its sty. I fear—-I fear that you have got hold of it there. They have sent out some people and it would be a bad business if they caught you with the pig; at the very least, you would be shut up in the dark hole.Goodness!help me out of this fix; you know more about this place than I do, take my pig and leave me your goose.I shall risk something at that game,but I will not be the cause of your getting into trouble.When I think over it properly,I have even gained by the exchange; first there is the good roast-meat, then the quantity of fat which will drip from it, and which will give me dripping for my bread for a quarter of a year, and lastly the beautiful white feathers; I will have my pillow stuffed with them, and then indeed I shall go to sleep without rocking. How glad my mother will be!I sharpen scissors and quickly grind, My coat blows out in the wind behind.All's well with you, as you are so merry with your grinding.Yes,the trade has a golden foundation. A real grinder is a man who as often as he puts his hand into his pocket finds gold in it. But where did you buy that fine goose?I did not buy it, but exchanged my pig for it.And the pig?That I got for a cow.And the cow?I took that instead of a horse.And the horse?For that I gave a lump of gold as big as my head.And the gold?Well, that was my wages for seven years' service.You have known how to look after yourself each time,If you can only get on so far as to hear the money jingle in your pocket whenever you stand up, you will have made your fortune.How shall I manage that?You must be a grinder, as I am; nothing particular is wanted for it but a grindstone, the rest finds itself. I have one here; it is certainly a little worn, but you need not give me anything for it but your goose; will you do it?How can you ask?I shall be the luckiest fellow on earth; if I have money whenever I put my hand in my pocket, what need I trouble about any longer?Now,here is a strong stone for you into the bargain; you can hammer well upon it, and straighten your old nails. Take it with you and keep it carefully.I must have been born with a caul,everything I want happens to me just as if I were a Sunday-child.There is no man under the sun so fortunate as I,' he cried out. With a light heart and free from every burden he now ran on until he was with his mother at home.\n\n\t6                