Hans wished to put his son to learn a trade, so he went into the church and prayed to our Lord God to know which would be most advantageous for him. Then the clerk got behind the altar, and said,  On this Hans goes back to his son, and tells him he is to learn thieving, and that the Lord God had said so. So he goes with his son to seek a man who is acquainted with thieving. They walk a long time and come into a great forest, where stands a little house with an old woman in it. Hans says,   says the woman,  So he speaks with the son, and asks if he knows thieving really well? The master-thief says, \n\n\tThe father goes home again, and the son learns witchcraft and thieving, thoroughly. When the year is out, the father is full of anxiety to know how he is to contrive to recognize his son. As he is thus going about in his trouble, he meets a little dwarf, who says, \n\n\t says Hans,  Then the dwarf tells him to take a small basket of bread with him, and to stand beneath the chimney. \n\n\tHans goes thither, and throws a little basket full of black bread in front of the basket with the bird in it, and the little bird comes out, and looks up.  says the father, and the son is delighted to see his father, but the master-thief says,   said the youth.\n\n\tThen the father and son set out homeward. On the way a carriage comes driving by. Hereupon the son says to his father,  Then the gentleman calls from the carriage,   says the father.    The gentleman takes it into his carriage, but when they have driven a little farther the dog springs out of the carriage through the window, and goes back to his father, and is no longer a greyhound.\n\n\tThey go home together. Next day there is a fair in the neighboring town, so the youth says to his father,  Then the father goes with the horse to the fair, and the master-thief comes and buys the horse for a hundred thalers, but the father forgets, and does not take off the bridle. So the man goes home with the horse, and puts it in the stable. When the maid crosses the threshold, the horse says,  Then the maid stands still, and says,  So she goes and takes the bridle off, and the horse becomes a sparrow, and flies out at the door, and the wizard becomes a sparrow also, and flies after him. Then they come together and cast lots, but the master loses, and betakes himself to the water and is a fish. Then the youth also becomes a fish, and they cast lots again, and the master loses. So the master changes himself into a cock, and the youth becomes a fox, and bites the master's head off, and he died and has remained dead to this day.\n\n\t7                