There was once a cook named Grethel, who wore shoes with red rosettes, and when she walked out with them on, she turned herself this way and that, and thought,  And when she came home she drank, in her gladness of heart, a draught of wine, and as wine excites a desire to eat, she tasted the best of whatever she was cooking until she was satisfied, and said, \n\n\tIt came to pass that the master one day said to her,   answered Grethel. She killed two fowls, scalded them, plucked them, put them on the spit, and towards evening set them before the fire, that they might roast. The fowls began to turn brown, and were nearly ready, but the guest had not yet arrived. Then Grethel called out to her master,  The master said,  When the master had turned his back, Grethel laid the spit with the fowls on one side, and thought,  She ran down, set a jug, said,  and took a good drink, and took yet another hearty draught.\n\n\tThen she went and put the fowls down again to the fire, basted them, and drove the spit merrily round. But as the roast meat smelt so good, Grethel thought,  She touched it with her finger, and said,  She ran to the window, to see if the master was not coming with his guest, but she saw no one, and went back to the fowls and thought,  So she cut it off, ate it, and enjoyed it, and when she had done, she thought,  When the two wings were eaten, she went and looked for her master, and did not see him. It suddenly occurred to her,  Then she said,  So she ran into the cellar again, took an enormous drink and ate up the one chicken in great glee. When one of the chickens was swallowed down, and still her master did not come, Grethel looked at the other and said,  So she took another hearty drink, and let the second chicken rejoin the first.\n\n\tWhile she was just in the best of the eating, her master came and cried, hurry up,   answered Grethel. Meantime the master looked to see that the table was properly laid, and took the great knife, wherewith he was going to carve the chickens, and sharpened it on the steps. Presently the guest came, and knocked politely and courteously at the house-door. Grethel ran, and looked to see who was there, and when she saw the guest, she put her finger to her lips and said,  The guest heard the sharpening, and hurried down the steps again as fast as he could. Grethel was not idle; she ran screaming to her master, and cried,    said she,   said her master, and lamented the fine chickens.  He called to him to stop, but the guest pretended not to hear. Then he ran after him with the knife still in his hand, crying,  meaning that the guest should leave him just one chicken, and not take both. The guest, however, thought no otherwise than that he was to give up one of his ears, and ran as if fire were burning under him, in order to take them both home with him.\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t