

	'If others have tried it,' said Brother Lustig, 'I will try it too.'

	'Leave it alone,' said the host, 'it will cost you your neck.' 'It won't kill me at once,' said Brother Lustig, 'just give me the key, and some good food and wine.' So the host gave him the key, and food and wine, and with this Brother Lustig went into the castle, enjoyed his supper, and at length, as he was sleepy, he lay down on the ground, for there was no bed. He soon fell asleep, but during the night was disturbed by a great noise, and when he awoke, he saw nine ugly devils in the room, who had made a circle, and were dancing around him. Brother Lustig said, 'Well, dance as long as you like, but none of you must come too close.' But the devils pressed continually nearer to him, and almost stepped on his face with their hideous feet. 'Stop, you devils' ghosts,' said he, but they behaved still worse. Then Brother Lustig grew angry, and cried, 'Hola! but I will soon make it quiet,' and got the leg of a chair and struck out into the midst of them with it. But nine devils against one soldier were still too many, and when he struck those in front of him, the others seized him behind by the hair, and tore it unmercifully. 'Devils' crew,' cried he, 'it is getting too bad, but wait. Into my knapsack, all nine of you!' In an instant they were in it, and then he buckled it up and threw it into a corner. After this all was suddenly quiet, and Brother Lustig lay down again, and slept till it was bright day. Then came the inn-keeper, and the nobleman to whom the castle belonged, to see how he had fared; but when they perceived that he was merry and well they were astonished, and asked, 'Have the spirits done you no harm, then?' 'The reason why they have not,' answered Brother Lustig, 'is because I have got the whole nine of them in my knapsack! You may once more inhabit your castle quite tranquilly, none of them will ever haunt it again.' The nobleman thanked him, made him rich presents, and begged him to remain in his service, and he would provide for him as long as he lived. 'No,' replied Brother Lustig, 'I am used to wandering about, I will travel farther.' Then he went away, and entered into a smithy, laid the knapsack, which contained the nine devils on the anvil, and asked the smith and his apprentices to strike it. So they smote with their great hammers with all their strength, and the devils uttered howls which were quite pitiable. When he opened the knapsack after this, eight of them were dead, but one which had been lying in a fold of it, was still alive, slipped out, and went back again to hell. Thereupon Brother Lustig travelled a long time about the world, and those who know them can tell many a story about him, but at last he grew old, and thought of his end, so he went to a hermit who was known to be a pious man, and said to him, 'I am tired of wandering about, and want now to behave in such a manner that I shall enter into the kingdom of Heaven.' The hermit replied, 'There are two roads, one is broad and pleasant, and leads to hell, the other is narrow and rough, and leads to heaven.' 'I should be a fool,' thought Brother Lustig, 'if I were to take the narrow, rough road.' So he set out and took the broad and pleasant road, and at length came to a great black door, which was the door of Hell. Brother Lustig knocked, and the door-keeper peeped out to see who was there. But when he saw Brother Lustig, he was terrified, for he was the very same ninth devil who had been shut up in the knapsack, and had escaped from it with a black eye. So he pushed the bolt in again as quickly as he could, ran to the devil's lieutenant, and said, 'There is a fellow outside with a knapsack, who wants to come in, but as you value your lives don't allow him to enter, or he will wish the whole of hell into his knapsack. He once gave me a frightful hammering when I was inside it.' So they called out to Brother Lustig that he was to go away again, for he should not get in there! 'If they won't have me here,' thought he, 'I will see if I can find a place for myself in heaven, for I must be somewhere.' So he turned about and went onwards until he came to the door of Heaven, where he knocked. St. Peter was sitting hard by as door-keeper. Brother Lustig recognised him at once, and thought, 'Here I find an old friend, I shall get on better.' But St. Peter said, 'I really believe that thou wantest to come into Heaven.' 'Let me in, brother; I must get in somewhere; if they would have taken me into Hell, I should not have come here.' 'No,' said St. Peter, 'thou shalt not enter.' 'Then if thou wilt not let me in, take thy knapsack back, for I will have nothing at all from thee.' 'Give it here, then,' said St. Peter. Then Brother Lustig gave him the knapsack into Heaven through the bars, and St. Peter took it, and hung it beside his seat. Then said Brother Lustig, 'And now I wish myself inside my knapsack,' and in a second he was in it, and in Heaven, and St. Peter was forced to let him stay there.