There was once a man who understood all kinds of arts; he served in war, and behaved well and bravely, but when the war was over he received his dismissal, and three farthings for his expenses on the way. 'Stop,' said he, 'I shall not be content with this. If I can only meet with the right people, the King will yet have to give me all the treasure of the country.' Then full of anger he went into the forest, and saw a man standing therein who had plucked up six trees as if they were blades of corn. He said to him, 'Wilt thou be my servant and go with me?' 'Yes,' he answered, 'but, first, I will take this little bundle of sticks home to my mother,' and he took one of the trees, and wrapped it round the five others, lifted the bundle on his back, and carried it away. Then he returned and went with his master, who said, 'We two ought to be able to get through the world very well,' and when they had walked on for a short while they found a huntsman who was kneeling, had shouldered his gun, and was about to fire. The master said to him, 'Huntsman, what art thou going to shoot?' He answered, 'Two miles from here a fly is sitting on the branch of an oak-tree, and I want to shoot its left eye out.' 'Oh, come with me,' said the man, 'if we three are together, we certainly ought to be able to get on in the world!' The huntsman was ready, and went with him, and they came to seven windmills whose sails were turning round with great speed, and yet no wind was blowing either on the right or the left, and no leaf was stirring. Then said the man, 'I know not what is driving the windmills, not a breath of air is stirring,' and he went onwards with his servants, and when they had walked two miles they saw a man sitting on a tree who was shutting one nostril, and blowing out of the other. 'Good gracious! what are you doing up there?' He answered, 'Two miles from here are seven windmills; look, I am blowing them till they turn round.' 'Oh, come with me,' said the man. 'If we four are together, we shall carry the whole world before us!' Then the blower came down and went with him, and after a while they saw a man who was standing on one leg and had taken off the other, and laid it beside him. Then the master said, 'You have arranged things very comfortably to have a rest.' 'I am a runner,' he replied, 'and to stop myself running far too fast, I have taken off one of my legs, for if I run with both, I go quicker than any bird can fly.' 'Oh, go with me. If we five are together, we shall carry the whole world before us.' So he went with them, and it was not long before they met a man who wore a cap, but had put it quite on one ear. Then the master said to him, 'Gracefully, gracefully, don't stick your cap on one ear, you look just like a tom-fool!' 'I must not wear it otherwise,' said he, 'for if I set my hat straight, a terrible frost comes on, and all the birds in the air are frozen, and drop dead on the ground.' 'Oh, come with me,' said the master. 'If we six are together, we can carry the whole world before us.'