There was once a man who had a daughter who was called Clever Elsie. And when she had grown up her father said,   said the mother;  At length a man came from a distance and wooed her, who was called Hans; but he stipulated that Clever Elsie should be really wise.  said the father,  and the mother said,   said Hans,  When they were sitting at dinner and had eaten, the mother said,  Then Clever Elsie took the pitcher from the wall, went into the cellar, and tapped the lid briskly as she went, so that the time might not appear long. When she was below she fetched herself a chair, and set it before the barrel so that she had no need to stoop, and did not hurt her back or do herself any unexpected injury. Then she placed the can before her, and turned the tap, and while the beer was running she would not let her eyes be idle, but looked up at the wall, and after much peering here and there, saw a pick-axe exactly above her, which the masons had accidentally left there.\n\n\tThen Clever Elsie began to weep, and said,  Then she sat and wept and screamed with all the strength of her body, over the misfortune which lay before her. Those upstairs waited for the drink, but Clever Elsie still did not come. Then the woman said to the servant,  The maid went and found her sitting in front of the barrel, screaming loudly.  asked the maid.  she answered,  Then said the maid,  and sat down beside her and began loudly to weep over the misfortune. After a while, as the maid did not come back, those upstairs were thirsty for the beer, the man said to the boy,  The boy went down, and there sat Clever Elsie and the girl both weeping together. Then he asked,   said Elsie,  Then said the boy,  and sat down by her, and likewise began to howl loudly. Upstairs they waited for the boy, but as he still did not return, the man said to the woman,  The woman went down, and found all three in the midst of their lamentations, and inquired what was the cause; then Elsie told her also that her future child was to be killed by the pick-axe, when it grew big and had to draw beer, and the pick-axe fell down. Then said the mother likewise,  and sat down and wept with them. The man upstairs waited a short time, but as his wife did not come back and his thirst grew ever greater, he said,  But when he got into the cellar, and they were all sitting together crying, and he heard the reason, and that Elsie's child was the cause, and that Elsie might perhaps bring one into the world some day, and that it might be killed by the pick-axe, if it should happen to be sitting beneath it, drawing beer just at the very time when it fell down, he cried,  and sat down, and likewise wept with them. The bridegroom stayed upstairs alone for a long time; then as no one would come back he thought,  When he got down, five of them were sitting screaming and lamenting quite piteously, each out-doing the other.  he asked.  said Elsie,   said Hans,  and he seized her hand, took her upstairs with him, and married her.\n\n\tAfter Hans had had her some time, he said,   After Hans had gone away, she cooked herself some good broth and took it into the field with her. When she came to the field she said to herself,  Then she emptied her basin of broth, and when she was fully satisfied, she once more said,  Then she lay down among the corn and fell asleep. Hans had been at home for a long time, but Elsie did not come; then said he,  As, however, she still stayed away, and it was evening, Hans went out to see what she had cut, but nothing was cut, and she was lying among the corn asleep. Then Hans hastened home and brought a fowler's net with little bells and hung it round about her, and she still went on sleeping. Then he ran home, shut the house-door, and sat down in his chair and worked. At length, when it was quite dark, Clever Elsie awoke and when she got up there was a jingling all round about her, and the bells rang at each step which she took. Then she was alarmed, and became uncertain whether she really was Clever Elsie or not, and said,  But she knew not what answer to make to this, and stood for a time in doubt; at length she thought,  She ran to the door of her own house, but it was shut; then she knocked at the window and cried,   answered Hans,  Hereupon she was terrified, and said,  and went to another door; but when the people heard the jingling of the bells they would not open it, and she could get in nowhere. Then she ran out of the village, and no one has seen her since.\n\n\t7.3                