One bright morning as the Fox was following his sharp nosethrough the wood in search of a bite to eat, he saw a Crow on thelimb of a tree overhead. This was by no means the first Crow theFox had ever seen. What caught his attention this time and madehim stop for a second look, was that the lucky Crow held a bit ofcheese in her beak. "No need to search any farther," thought sly Master Fox. "Here isa dainty bite for my breakfast." Up he trotted to the foot of the tree in which the Crow wassitting, and looking up admiringly, he cried, "Good-morning,beautiful creature!" The Crow, her head cocked on one side, watched the Foxsuspiciously. But she kept her beak tightly closed on the cheeseand did not return his greeting. "What a charming creature she is!" said the Fox. "How herfeathers shine! What a beautiful form and what splendid wings!Such a wonderful Bird should have a very lovely voice, sinceeverything else about her is so perfect. Could she sing just onesong, I know I should hail her Queen of Birds." Listening to these flattering words, the Crow forgot all hersuspicion, and also her breakfast. She wanted very much to becalled Queen of Birds. So she opened her beak wide to utter her loudest caw, and downfell the cheese straight into the Fox's open mouth. "Thank you," said Master Fox sweetly, as he walked off. "Thoughit is cracked, you have a voice sure enough. But where are yourwits?" The flatterer lives at the expense of those who will listen tohim. You may also enjoy a "fractured fairytale" version of this fable in rhyme, The Sychophantic Fox and the Gullible Raven. 8.8 Add  The Fox And The Crow to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Fox And The GoatOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Fox And The Crow to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Fox And The GoatOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Fox And The GoatOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Fox And The Goat Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library