A stray Lamb stood drinking early one morning on the bank of awoodland stream. That very same morning a hungry Wolf came byfarther up the stream, hunting for something to eat. He soon gothis eyes on the Lamb. As a rule Mr. Wolf snapped up suchdelicious morsels without making any bones about it, but thisLamb looked so very helpless and innocent that the Wolf felt heought to have some kind of an excuse for taking its life. "How dare you paddle around in my stream and stir up all themud!" he shouted fiercely. "You deserve to be punished severelyfor your rashness!" "But, your highness," replied the trembling Lamb, "do not beangry! I cannot possibly muddy the water you are drinking upthere. Remember, you are upstream and I am downstream." "You do muddy it!" retorted the Wolf savagely. "And besides, Ihave heard that you told lies about me last year!" "How could I have done so?" pleaded the Lamb. "I wasn't bornuntil this year." "If it wasn't you, it was your brother!" "I have no brothers." "Well, then," snarled the Wolf, "It was someone in your familyanyway. But no matter who it was, I do not intend to be talkedout of my breakfast." And without more words the Wolf seized the poor Lamb and carriedher off to the forest. The tyrant can always find an excuse for his tyranny. The unjust will not listen to the reasoning of the innocent. 7.9 Add  The Wolf And The Lamb to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The Lean DogOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Wolf And The Lamb to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The Lean DogOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The Lean DogOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The Lean Dog Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library