THERE was once a woman who had three daughters, the eldest of whom was called One-eye, because she had only one eye in the middle of her forehead, and the second, Two-eyes, because she had two eyes like other folks, and the youngest, Three-eyes, because she had three eyes; and her third eye was also in the centre of her forehead. However, as Two-eyes saw just as other human beings did, her sisters and her mother could not endure her. They said to her,  They pushed her about, and threw old clothes to her, and gave her nothing to eat but what they left, and did everything that they could to make her unhappy. It came to pass that Two-eyes had to go out into the fields and tend the goat, but she was still quite hungry, because her sisters had given her so little to eat. So she sat down on a ridge and began to weep, and so bitterly that two streams ran down from her eyes. And once when she looked up in her grief, a woman was standing beside her, who said,  Two-Eyes answered,  Then the wise woman said, Bleat, my little goat, bleat, Cover the table with something to eat,Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray, And take the table quite away, Hereupon the wise woman departed. But Two-eyes thought,  and she said,\n\n\t\n\n\tand scarcely had she spoken the words than a little table, covered with a white cloth, was standing there, and on it was a plate with a knife and fork, and a silver spoon; and the most delicious food was there also, warm and smoking as if it had just come out of the kitchen. Then Two-eyes said the shortest prayer she knew,  and helped herself to some food, and enjoyed it. And when she was satisfied, she said, as the wise woman had taught her,\n\n\t\n\n\tand immediately the little table and everything on it was gone again.  thought Two-eyes, and was quite glad and happy.\n\n\tIn the evening, when she went home with her goat, she found a small earthenware dish with some food, which her sisters had set ready for her, but she did not touch it. Next day she again went out with her goat, and left the few bits of broken bread which had been handed to her, lying untouched. The first and second time that she did this, her sisters did not remark it at all, but as it happened every time, they did observe it, and said,  In order that they might learn the truth, they resolved to send One-eye with Two-eyes when she went to drive her goat to the pasture, to observe what Two-eyes did when she was there, and whether any one brought her anything to eat and drink. So when Two-eyes set out the next time, One-eye went to her and said,  But Two-eyes knew what was in One-eye's mind, and drove the goat into high grass and said,  One-eye sat down and was tired with the unaccustomed walk and the heat of the sun, and Two-eyes sang constantly,\n\n\t\n\n\tuntil One-eye shut her one eye, and fell asleep, and as soon as Two-eyes saw that One-eye was fast asleep, and could discover nothing, she said,\n\n\t\n\n\tand seated herself at her table, and ate and drank until she was satisfied, and then she again cried,\n\n\t\n\n\tand in an instant all was gone. Two-eyes now awakened One-eye, and said,  So they went home, and again Two-eyes let her little dish stand untouched, and One-eye could not tell her mother why she would not eat it, and to excuse herself said, \n\n\tNext day the mother said to Three-eyes,  So Three-eyes went to Two-eyes, and said,  But Two-eyes knew what was in Three-eyes' mind, and drove the goat into high grass and said,  Three-eyes sat down and was tired with the walk and with the heat of the sun, and Two-eyes began the same song as before, and sang,\n\n\t\n\n\tbut then, instead of singing,\n\n\t\n\n\tas she ought to have done, she thoughtlessly sang,\n\n\t\n\n\tand sang all the time,\n\n\t\n\n\tThen two of the eyes which Three-eyes had, shut and fell asleep, but the third, as it had not been named in the song, did not sleep. It is true that Three-eyes shut it, but only in her cunning, to pretend it was asleep too, but it blinked, and could see everything very well. And when Two-eyes thought that Three-eyes was fast asleep, she used her little charm,\n\n\t\n\n\tand ate and drank as much as her heart desired, and then ordered the table to go away again,\n\n\t\n\n\tand Three-eyes had seen everything. Then Two-eyes came to her, waked her and said,  And when they got home, Two-eyes again did not eat, and Three-eyes said to the mother, Bleat, my little goat, bleat, Cover the table with something to eat,Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray, And take the table quite away, Then the envious mother cried,  and she fetched a butcher's knife, and thrust it into the heart of the goat, which fell down dead.\n\n\tWhen Two-eyes saw that, she went out full of trouble, seated herself on the ridge of grass at the edge of the field, and wept bitter tears. Suddenly the wise woman once more stood by her side, and said,   she answered.  The wise woman said,  Then she vanished, and Two-eyes went home and said to her sisters,  Then they laughed and said,  So Two-eyes took the entrails and buried them quietly in the evening, in front of the house-door, as the wise woman had counselled her to do.\n\n\tNext morning, when they all awoke, and went to the house-door, there stood a strangely magnificent tree with leaves of silver, and fruit of gold hanging among them, so that in all the wide world there was nothing more beautiful or precious. They did not know how the tree could have come there during the night, but Two-eyes saw that it had grown up out of the entrails of the goat, for it was standing on the exact spot where she had buried them. Then the mother said to One-eye,  One-eye climbed up, but when she was about to get hold of one of the golden apples, the branch escaped from her hands, and that happened each time, so that she could not pluck a single apple, let her do what she might. Then said the mother,  One-eye slipped down, and Three-eyes climbed up. Three-eyes was not more skilful, and might search as she liked, but the golden apples always escaped her. At length the mother grew impatient, and climbed up herself, but could get hold of the fruit no better than One-eye and Three-eyes, for she always clutched empty air. Then said Two-eyes,  The sisters cried,  But Two-eyes climbed up, and the golden apples did get out of her way, but came into her hand of their own accord, so that she could pluck them one after the other, and brought a whole apronful down with her. The mother took them away from her, and instead of treating poor Two-eyes any better for this, she and One-eye and Three-eyes were only envious, because Two-eyes alone had been able to get the fruit, and they treated her still more cruelly.\n\n\tIt so befell that once when they were all standing together by the tree, a young knight came up.  cried the two sisters,  and with all speed they turned an empty barrel which was standing close by the tree over poor Two-eyes, and they pushed the golden apples which she had been gathering, under it too. When the knight came nearer he was a handsome lord, who stopped and admired the magnificent gold and silver tree, and said to the two sisters,  Then One-eye and Three-eyes replied that the tree belonged to them, and that they would give him a branch. They both took great trouble, but they were not able to do it, for the branches and fruit both moved away from them every time. Then said the knight,  They again asserted that the tree was their property. Whilst they were saying so, Two-eyes rolled out a couple of golden apples from under the barrel to the feet of the knight, for she was vexed with One-eye and Three-eyes, for not speaking the truth. When the knight saw the apples he was astonished, and asked where they came from. One-eye and Three-eyes answered that they had another sister, who was not allowed to show herself, for she had only two eyes like any common person. The knight, however, desired to see her, and cried,  Then Two-eyes, quite comforted, came from beneath the barrel, and the knight was surprised at her great beauty, and said,   replied Two-eyes,  And she climbed up, and with the greatest ease broke off a branch with beautiful silver leaves and golden fruit, and gave it to the knight. Then said the knight,   answered Two-eyes,  So the knight lifted Two-eyes on to his horse, and took her home with him to his father's castle, and there he gave her beautiful clothes, and meat and drink to her heart's content, and as he loved her so much he married her, and the wedding was solemnized with great rejoicing. When Two-eyes was thus carried away by the handsome knight, her two sisters grudged her good fortune in downright earnest.  thought they,  But next morning, the tree had vanished, and all their hopes were at an end. And when Two-eyes looked out of the window of her own little room, to her great delight it was standing in front of it, and so it had followed her.\n\n\tTwo-eyes lived a long time in happiness. Once two poor women came to her in her castle, and begged for alms. She looked in their faces, and recognized her sisters, One-eye, and Three-eyes, who had fallen into such poverty that they had to wander about and beg their bread from door to door. Two-eyes, however, made them welcome, and was kind to them, and took care of them, so that they both with all their hearts repented the evil that they had done their sister in their youth.\n\n\t8.2                