Ah! yes, that was little Tuk: in reality his name was not Tuk, but that waswhat he called himself before he could speak plain: he meant it for Charles,and it is all well enough if one does but know it. He had now to take care ofhis little sister Augusta, who was much younger than himself, and he was,besides, to learn his lesson at the same time; but these two things would notdo together at all. There sat the poor little fellow, with his sister on hislap, and he sang to her all the songs he knew; and he glanced the while fromtime to time into the geography-book that lay open before him. By the nextmorning he was to have learnt all the towns in Zealand by heart, and to knowabout them all that is possible to be known.
His mother now came home, for she had been out, and took little Augusta on herarm. Tuk ran quickly to the window, and read so eagerly that he pretty nearlyread his eyes out; for it got darker and darker, but his mother had no moneyto buy a candle.
"There goes the old washerwoman over the way," said his mother, as she lookedout of the window. "The poor woman can hardly drag herself along, and she mustnow drag the pail home from the fountain. Be a good boy, Tukey, and run acrossand help the old woman, won't you?"
So Tuk ran over quickly and helped her; but when he came back again into theroom it was quite dark, and as to a light, there was no thought of such athing. He was now to go to bed; that was an old turn-up bedstead; in it he layand thought about his geography lesson, and of Zealand, and of all that hismaster had told him. He ought, to be sure, to have read over his lesson again,but that, you know, he could not do. He therefore put his geography-book underhis pillow, because he had heard that was a very good thing to do when onewants to learn one's lesson; but one cannot, however, rely upon it entirely.Well, there he lay, and thought and thought, and all at once it was just as ifsomeone kissed his eyes and mouth: he slept, and yet he did not sleep; it wasas though the old washerwoman gazed on him with her mild eyes and said, "Itwere a great sin if you were not to know your lesson tomorrow morning. Youhave aided me, I therefore will now help you; and the loving God will do so atall times." And all of a sudden the book under Tuk's pillow began scraping andscratching.
"Kickery-ki! kluk! kluk! kluk!"--that was an old hen who came creeping along,and she was from Kjoge. "I am a Kjoger hen,"* said she, and then she relatedhow many inhabitants there were there, and about the battle that had takenplace, and which, after all, was hardly worth talking about.
* Kjoge, a town in the bay of Kjoge. "To see the Kjoge hens," is anexpression similar to "showing a child London," which is said to be done bytaking his head in both bands, and so lifting him off the ground. At theinvasion of the English in 1807, an encounter of a no very glorious naturetook place between the British troops and the undisciplined Danish militia.
"Kribledy, krabledy--plump!" down fell somebody: it was a wooden bird, thepopinjay used at the shooting-matches at Prastoe. Now he said that there werejust as many inhabitants as he had nails in his body; and he was very proud."Thorwaldsen lived almost next door to me.* Plump! Here I lie capitally."
* Prastoe, a still smaller town than Kjoge. Some hundred paces from it liesthe manor-house Ny Soe, where Thorwaldsen, the famed sculptor, generallysojourned during his stay in Denmark, and where he called many of his immortalworks into existence.
But little Tuk was no longer lying down: all at once he was on horseback. Onhe went at full gallop, still galloping on and on. A knight with a gleamingplume, and most magnificently dressed, held him before him on the horse, andthus they rode through the wood to the old town of Bordingborg, and that was alarge and very lively town. High towers rose from the castle of the king, andthe brightness of many candles streamed from all the windows; within was danceand song, and King Waldemar and the young, richly-attired maids of honordanced together. The morn now came; and as soon as the sun appeared, the wholetown and the king's palace crumbled together, and one tower after the other;and at last only a single one remained standing where the castle had beenbefore,* and the town was so small and poor, and the school boys came alongwith their books under their arms, and said, "2000 inhabitants!" but that wasnot true, for there were not so many.
*Bordingborg, in the reign of King Waldemar, a considerable place, now anunimportant little town. One solitary tower only, and some remains of a wall,show where the castle once stood.
And little Tukey lay in his bed: it seemed to him as if he dreamed, and yet asif he were not dreaming; however, somebody was close beside him.
"Little Tukey! Little Tukey!" cried someone near. It was a seaman, quite alittle personage, so little as if he were a midshipman; but a midshipman itwas not.
"Many remembrances from Corsor.* That is a town that is just rising intoimportance; a lively town that has steam-boats and stagecoaches: formerlypeople called it ugly, but that is no longer true. I lie on the sea," saidCorsor; "I have high roads and gardens, and I have given birth to a poet whowas witty and amusing, which all poets are not. I once intended to equip aship that was to sail all round the earth; but I did not do it, although Icould have done so: and then, too, I smell so deliciously, for close beforethe gate bloom the most beautiful roses."
*Corsor, on the Great Belt, called, formerly, before the introduction ofsteam-vessels, when travellers were often obliged to wait a long time for afavorable wind, "the most tiresome of towns." The poet Baggesen was born here.
Little Tuk looked, and all was red and green before his eyes; but as soon asthe confusion of colors was somewhat over, all of a sudden there appeared awooded slope close to the bay, and high up above stood a magnificent oldchurch, with two high pointed towers. From out the hill-side spouted fountainsin thick streams of water, so that there was a continual splashing; and closebeside them sat an old king with a golden crown upon his white head: that wasKing Hroar, near the fountains, close to the town of Roeskilde, as it is nowcalled. And up the slope into the old church went all the kings and queens ofDenmark, hand in hand, all with their golden crowns; and the organ played andthe fountains rustled. Little Tuk saw all, heard all. "Do not forget thediet," said King Hroar.*
*Roeskilde, once the capital of Denmark. The town takes its name fromKing Hroar, and the many fountains in the neighborhood. In the beautifulcathedral the greater number of the kings and queens of Denmark are interred.In Roeskilde, too, the members of the Danish Diet assemble.
Again all suddenly disappeared. Yes, and whither? It seemed to him just as ifone turned over a leaf in a book. And now stood there an old peasant-woman,who came from Soroe,* where grass grows in the market-place. She had an oldgrey linen apron hanging over her head and back: it was so wet, it certainlymust have been raining. "Yes, that it has," said she; and she now related manypretty things out of Holberg's comedies, and about Waldemar and Absalon; butall at once she cowered together, and her head began shaking backwards andforwards, and she looked as she were going to make a spring. "Croak! croak!"said she. "It is wet, it is wet; there is such a pleasant deathlike stillnessin Sorbe!" She was now suddenly a frog, "Croak"; and now she was an old woman."One must dress according to the weather," said she. "It is wet; it is wet. Mytown is just like a bottle; and one gets in by the neck, and by the neck onemust get out again! In former times I had the finest fish, and now I havefresh rosy-cheeked boys at the bottom of the bottle, who learn wisdom, Hebrew,Greek--Croak!"
* Sorbe, a very quiet little town, beautifully situated, surrounded by woodsand lakes. Holberg, Denmark's Moliere, founded here an academy for the sons ofthe nobles. The poets Hauch and Ingemann were appointed professors here. Thelatter lives there still.
When she spoke it sounded just like the noise of frogs, or as if one walkedwith great boots over a moor; always the same tone, so uniform and so tiringthat little Tuk fell into a good sound sleep, which, by the bye, could not dohim any harm.
But even in this sleep there came a dream, or whatever else it was: his littlesister Augusta, she with the blue eyes and the fair curling hair, was suddenlya tall, beautiful girl, and without having wings was yet able to fly; and shenow flew over Zealand--over the green woods and the blue lakes.
"Do you hear the cock crow, Tukey? Cock-a-doodle-doo! The cocks are flying upfrom Kjoge! You will have a farm-yard, so large, oh! so very large! You willsuffer neither hunger nor thirst! You will get on in the world! You will be arich and happy man! Your house will exalt itself like King Waldemar's tower,and will be richly decorated with marble statues, like that at Prastoe. Youunderstand what I mean. Your name shall circulate with renown all round theearth, like unto the ship that was to have sailed from Corsor; and inRoeskilde--"
"Do not forget the diet!" said King Hroar.
"Then you will speak well and wisely, little Tukey; and when at last you sinkinto your grave, you shall sleep as quietly--"
"As if I lay in Soroe," said Tuk, awaking. It was bright day, and he was nowquite unable to call to mind his dream; that, however, was not at allnecessary, for one may not know what the future will bring.
And out of bed he jumped, and read in his book, and now all at once he knewhis whole lesson. And the old washerwoman popped her head in at the door,nodded to him friendly, and said, "Thanks, many thanks, my good child, foryour help! May the good ever-loving God fulfil your loveliest dream!"
Little Tukey did not at all know what he had dreamed, but the loving God knewit.6.4 Add  The Dream Of Little Tuk to your library.Return to the Hans Christian Andersen library, or . . . 