Master Pfriem was a short, thin, but lively man, who never rested a moment. His face, of which his turned-up nose was the only prominent feature, was marked with small-pox and pale as death, his hair was gray and shaggy, his eyes small, but they glanced perpetually about on all sides. He saw everything, criticised everything, knew everything best, and was always in the right. When he went into the streets, he moved his arms about as if he were rowing; and once he struck the pail of a girl, who was carrying water, so high in the air that he himself was wetted all over by it.  cried he to her, while he was shaking himself,  By trade he was a shoemaker, and when he worked he pulled his thread out with such force that he drove his fist into every one who did not keep far enough off. No apprentice stayed more than a month with him, for he had always some fault to find with the very best work. At one time it was that the stitches were not even, at another that one shoe was too long, or one heel higher than the other, or the leather not cut large enough.  said he to his apprentice,  and he brought a strap and gave him a couple of strokes across the back. He called them all sluggards. He himself did not turn much work out of his hands, for he never sat still for a quarter of an hour. If his wife got up very early in the morning and lighted the fire, he jumped out of bed, and ran bare-footed into the kitchen, crying,  If the servants were standing by their wash-tubs and laughing, and telling each other all they knew, he scolded them, and said,  And out he would run and knock a pail full of soap and water over, so that the whole kitchen was flooded. Someone was building a new house, so he hurried to the window to look on.  cried he.  He sat down, put a couple of stitches in, and then jumped up again, unfastened his leather-apron, and cried,  He stumbled on the carpenters.  cried he,  He snatched an axe out of a carpenter's hand and wanted to show him how he ought to cut; but as a cart loaded with clay came by, he threw the axe away, and hastened to the peasant who was walking by the side of it:  said he,  The peasant did not give him an answer, and Pfriem in a rage ran back into his workshop. When he was setting himself to work again, the apprentice reached him a shoe.  screamed he,   answered the apprentice, \n\n\tOne night Master Pfriem dreamed he was dead, and on his way to heaven. When he got there, he knocked loudly at the door.  said he to himself,  The apostle Peter opened the door, and wanted to see who demanded admission so noisily.  said he,   answered Pfriem.  So he went in, and walked up and down the wide expanses of heaven. He looked around him, to the left and to the right, but sometimes shook his head, or muttered something to himself. Then he saw two angels who were carrying away a beam. It was the beam which some one had had in his own eye whilst he was looking for the splinter in the eye of another. They did not, however, carry the beam lengthways, but obliquely.  thought Master Pfriem; but he said nothing, and seemed satisfied with it.  Soon after this he saw two angels who were drawing water out of a well into a bucket, but at the same time he observed that the bucket was full of holes, and that the water was running out of it on every side. They were watering the earth with rain.  he exclaimed; but happily recollected himself, and thought,  He went farther and saw a cart which had stuck fast in a deep hole.  said he to the man who stood by it;   replied the man,  In fact an angel did come and harnessed two horses to it.  thought Pfriem,  Another angel came and brought two more horses; she did not, however, harness them in front of it, but behind. That was too much for Master Pfriem,  he burst out with,  He was going to say more, but one of the inhabitants of heaven seized him by the throat and pushed him forth with irresistible strength. Beneath the gateway Master Pfriem turned his head round to take one more look at the cart, and saw that it was being raised into the air by four winged horses.\n\n\tAt this moment Master Pfriem awoke.  said he to himself, \n\n\t3.3                