Two boys, named Jacob Peters and Ralph Gilpin were passing alongChestnut Street one evening about ten years ago, when one of them,stopped, and said,--"Come, Ralph, let us have some oysters. I've got a quarter." Theywere in front of an oyster-cellar."No," replied Ralph, firmly. "I'm not going down there.""I didn't mean that we should get anything to drink," replied theother."No matter: they sell liquor, and I don't wish to be seen in such aplace.""That's silly," said Jacob Peters, speaking with some warmth. "Itcan't hurt you to be seen there. They sell oysters, and all weshould go there for would be to buy oysters. Come along. Don't befoolish!" And Jacob grasped the arm of Ralph, and tried to draw himtowards the refectory. But Ralph stood immovable."What harm can it do?" asked Jacob."It might do at great deal of harm.""In what way?""By hurting my good name.""I don't understand you.""I might be seen going in or coming out by some one who know me, andwho might take it for granted that my visit, was for liquor.""Well, suppose he did? He would be wrong in his inference; and whatneed you care? A clear conscience, I have heard my uncle say, isbetter than any man's opinion, good or bad.""I prefer the clear conscience and the good opinion together, if Ican secure both at the same time," said Ralph."O, you're too afraid of other people's opinions," replied Jacob, ina sneering manner. "As for me, I'll try to do right and be right,and not bother myself about what people may think. Come, are yougoing to join me in a plate of oysters?""No.""Very well. Good by. I'm sorry you're afraid to do right for fearsomebody may think you're going to do wrong," and Jacob Petersdescended to the oyster-cellar, while Ralph Gilpin passed on his wayhomeward. As Jacob entered the saloon he met a man who looked at himnarrowly, and as Jacob thought, with surprise. He had seen this manbefore, but did not know his name.A few weeks afterwards, the two boys, who were neighbor, sattogether planning a row-boat excursion on the Schuylkill."We'll have Harry Elder, and Dick Jones, and Tom Forsyth," saidJacob."No, not Tom Forsyth," objected Ralph."Why not? He's a splendid rower.""I don't wish to be seen in his company," said Ralph. "He doesn'tbear a good character.""O, well; that's nothing to us.""I think it is a great deal to us. We are judged by the company wekeep.""Let people judge; who cares?" replied Jacob; "not I.""Well, I do, then," answered Ralph."I hate to see a boy so 'fraid of a shadow as you are.""A tainted name is no shadow; but a real evil to be afraid of.""I don't see how our taking Tom Forsyth along is going to taint yourname, or mine either.""He's a bad boy," Ralph firmly objected. "He uses profane language.You and I have both seen him foolish from drink. And we know that hewas sent home from a good place, under circumstances that threwsuspicion on his honesty. This being so, I am not going to be seenin his company. I think too much of my good name.""But, Ralph," urged Jacob, in a persuasive manner, "he's such asplendid rower. Don't be foolish about it; nobody'll see us. And weshall have such a grand time. I'll make him promise not to use awicked word all day.""It's no use to talk, Jacob. I'm not going in company with TomForsyth if I never go boating.""You're a fool!" exclaimed Jacob, losing his temper.Ralph's face burned with anger, but he kept back the sharp wordsthat sprung to his lips, and after a few moments said, with forcedcomposure,--"There's no use in you're getting mad about it, Jacob. If you preferTom to me, very well. I haven't set my heart on going.""I've spoken to Tom already" said Jacob, cooling off a little. "Andhe's promised to go; so there's no getting away from it. I'm sorryyou're so over nice."The rowing party came off, but Ralph was not of the number. As theboys were getting into the boat at Fairmount, Jacob noticed two orthree men standing on the wharf; and on lifting his eyes to the faceof one of them, he recognized the same individual who had looked athim so intently as he entered the oyster saloon. The man's eyesrested upon him for a few moments, and then turned to the boy, TomForsyth. Young Peters might have been mistaken, but he thought hesaw on the man's face a look of surprise and disapprobation. Somehowor other he did not feel very comfortable in mind as the boat pushedoff from shore. Who was this man? and why had he looked at him twiceso intently, and with something of disapproval in his face?Jacob Peters was fifteen years old. He had left school a few weeksbefore, and his father was desirous of getting him into a largewhole-sale house, on Market Street. A friend was acquainted with amember of the firm, and through his kind offices he hoped to makethe arrangement. Some conversation had already taken place betweenthe friend and merchant, who said they wished another lad in thestore, but were very particular as to the character of their boys.The friend assured him that Jacob was a lad of excellent character;and depending on this assurance, a preliminary engagement had beenmade, Jacob was to go into the store just one week from the day onwhich he went on the boating excursion. Both his own surprise andthat of his father may be imagined when a note came, saying that thefirm in Market Street had changed its views in regard to a lad, andwould not require the services of Jacob Peters.The father sent back a polite note, expressing regret at the changeof view, and asking that his son should still be borne in mind, ashe would prefer that situation for him to any other in the city.Jacob was the bearer of this note. When he entered the store, thefirst person he met was the man who looked at him so closely in theoyster saloon and on the wharf at Fairmount. Jacob handed him thenote, which he opened and read, and then gave him cold bow.A glimpse of the truth passed through Jacob's mind. He had beenmisjudged, and here was the unhappy result. His good name hadsuffered, and yet he had done nothing actually wrong. But boys, likemen, are judged by the company they keep and the places in whichthey are seen."I'm going into a store next week," said Ralph Gilpin, to his friendJacob, about a week afterwards."Where?" asked Jacob."On Market Street.""In what store?""In A. & L.'s," replied Ralph."O, no!" ejaculated Jacob, his face flushing, "not there!""Yes," replied Ralph. "I'm going to A. & L.'s. Father got me theplace. Don't you think I'm lucky? They're very particular about theboys they taking that store. Father says he considers their choiceof me quite a compliment. I'm sure I feel proud enough about it.""Well, I think they acted very meanly," said Jacob, showing sonicanger. "They promised father that I should have the place.""Are you sure about that?" asked the young friend."Certainly I am. I was to go there this week. But they sent father anote, saying they had changed their minds about a boy.""Perhaps," suggested Ralph, "it you were seen going into a drinkingsaloons or in company with Tom Forsyth. You remember what I said toyou about preserving a good name."Jacob's face colored, and his eyes fell to the ground."O, that's only your guess," he replied, tossing his head, andputting on an incredulous look; but he felt in his heart that thesuggestion of Ralph was true.It was over six months before Jacob Peters was successful in gettinga place, and then he had to go into a third-rate establishment,where the opportunity for advancement was small, and where hisassociates were not of the best character.The years passed on; and Ralph continued as careful as in thebeginning to preserve a good name. He was not content simply withdoing right; but felt that it was a duty to himself, and to all whomight, in any way be dependent on him, to appear right also. He was,therefore, particular in regard to the company he kept and theplaces he visited. Jacob, on the, contrary, continued to letinclination rather than prudence govern him in these matters. Hishabits were probably as good as those of Ralph, and his businesscapacity fully equal. But he was not regarded with the same favor,for he was often seen in company with young men known to be of loosemorals, and would occasionally, visit billiard-saloons,tenpin-alleys, and other places where men of disreputable characterare found. His father, who observed Jacob closely, remonstrated withhim occasionally as the boy advanced towards manhood; but Jacob puton an independent air, and replied that he went on the principle ofbeing right with himself. "You can't," he would say, "keep free frommisjudgment, do what you will. Men are always more inclined to thinkevil of each other than good. I do nothing that I'm ashamed of."So he continued to go where he pleased, and to associate with whomhe pleased, not caring what people might say.It is no very easy thing for as young man to make his way in theworld. All the avenues to success are thickly crowded with men oftalent, industry, and energy, and many favorable circumstances mustconspire to help him who gets very far in advance. Talent andindustry are wanted in, business, but the passport of a goodcharacter must accompany them, or they cannot be made rightlyavailable to their possessor. it is, therefore, of the firstimportance to preserved a good name, for this, if united withability and industry, with double your chances of success in life;for men will put confidence in you beyond what they can in others,who do not stand so fairly in common estimation.In due time Ralph Gilpin and Jacob Peters entered the world as men,but not at equal advantage. They had learned the same business, andwere both well acquainted with its details; but Ralph stood fairerin the eyes of business men, with whom he had come in contact,because he had been more careful about his reputation.While Jacob was twenty-three years of age, he was getting a salaryof one thousand dollars a year; but this was too small a sum to meetthe demands that had come upon him. His father, to whom he wastenderly attached, had lost his health and failed in business. Inconsequence of this, the burden of maintaining the family fellalmost entirely on Jacob. It would not have been felt as a burden ifhis income had been sufficient for their support. But it was not,unless their comfortable style of living was changed, and all shrunktogether in a smaller house. He had sisters just advancing towardswomanhood, and for their sakes, particularly, did he regret thestern necessity that required a change.About this time, the death of a responsible clerk in the house of A.& L. left a vacancy to be filled, and as Jacob was in every waycompetent to take the position, which commanded a salary of eighteenhundred dollars he made application; Ralph Gilpin, who was asalesman in the house, said all that he could in Jacob's favor; butthe latter had not been careful to preserve a good name, and thiswas against him. The place was one of trust, and the members of thefirm, after considering the matter, decided adversely. Nothing as tofact was alleged or known. Not a word as to his conduct in life wassaid against him. But he had often been seen in company with youngmen who did not bear a solid reputation, and where doubt existed, itwas not considered safe to employ him. So that good opportunity waslost--lost through his own fault.Poor Jacob felt gloomy and disappointed for a time; talked of"fate," "bad luck," and all that kind of nonsense, when the cause ofhis ill-success was to be attributed solely to an unwise disregardof appearances."We shall have to remove," he said to his mother in a troubled way,after this disappointment. "If I had secured the situation at A. &L.'s all would have been well with us. But now nothing remains butto seek a humbler place to remain here will only involve us in debt;and that, above all things, we must avoid. I am sorry for Jane andAlice; but it can't be helped."His mother tried to answer cheerfully and hopefully: but her wordsdid not dispel a single shadow from his mind. A few days after this,a gentleman said to Jacob Peters,--"I'll give you a hint of something that is coming in the way of goodfortune. A gentleman, whose name I do not feel at liberty tomention, contemplates going into your business. He has plenty ofcapital, and wishes to unite himself with a young, active, andexperienced man. Two or three have been thought of--you among therest; find I believe it has been finally settled that Jacob Petersis to be the man. So let me congratulate you, my young friend, onthis good fortune."And he grasped the hand of Jacob, and shook it warmly. From the valeof despondency, the young man was at once elevated to themountain-top of hope, and felt, for a time, bewildered in prospectof the good fortune awaited him.Almost in that very hour the capitalist, to whom his friendreferred, was in conversation with Mr. A., of the firm of A. & L."I have about concluded to associate with myself in business youngJacob Peters," said the former; "but before coming to a finalconclusion, I thought it best to ask your opinion in the matter. Youknow the young man?""Yes," replied Mr. A., "I have known him in a business way forseveral years. We have considerable dealing with the house in whichhe is employed.""What do you think of him?""He is a young man of decided business qualities.""So it appear's to me. And you think favorably of him?""As to the business qualification I do," replied Mr. A., placing anemphasis on the word business."Then you do not think favorably of him in some other respect?"Mr. A. was silent."I hope," said the, other, "that you will speak out plainly. This isa matter, to me, of the first importance. If you know of any reasonwhy I should not associate this young man with me in business Itrust you will speak without reserve."Mr. A. remained silent for some moments, and then said,--"I feel considerably embarrassed in regard to this matter. I wouldon no account give a wrong impression in regard to the young man. Hemay be all right; is all right, perhaps; but--""But what, sir?""I have seen him in company with young men whose characters are notfair. And I have seen him entering into and coming out of placeswhere it is not always safe to go.""Enough, sir, enough!" said the gentleman, emphatically, "The matteris settled. It may be all right with him, as you say. I hope it is.But he can never be a partner of mine. And now, passing from him, Iwish to ask about another young man, who has been in my mind secondto Peters. He is in your employment.""Ralph Gilpin, you mean.""Yes.""In every way unexceptionable. I can speak of him with the utmostconfidence. He is right in all respects--right as to the businessquality, right as to character, and right as to associations. Youcould not have a better man.""The matter is settled, then," replied the gentleman. "I will takeRalph Gilpin if neither you nor he objects.""There will be no objection on either side, I can answer for that,"said Mr. A., and the interview closed.From the mountain-top of hope, away down into the dark vale ofdespondency, passed Jacob Peters, when it was told him that RalphGilpin was to be a partner in the new firm which he had expected toenter."And so nothing is left to us," he said to himself, in bitterness ofspirit, "but go down, while others, no better than we are, movesteadily upwards. Why should Ralph Gilpin be preferred before me? Hehas no higher ability nor stricter integrity. He cannot be morefaithful, more earnest, or more active than I would have been in thenew position. But I am set aside and he is taken. It is a bitter,bitter disappointment!"Three years have passed, and Ralph Gilpin is on the road to fortune,while Jacob Peters remains a clerk. And why? The one was careful ofhis good name; the other was not.My young reader, take the lesson to heart. Guard well your goodname; and as name signifies quality, by all means guard your spirit,so that no evil thing enter there; and your good name shall be onlythe expression of your good quality.5.3 