On that terrible day, when the universal injustice was committed andJesus Christ was crucified in Golgotha among robbers--on that day,from early morning, Ben-Tovit, a tradesman of Jerusalem, sufferedfrom an unendurable toothache. His toothache had commenced on theday before, toward evening; at first his right jaw started to painhim, and one tooth, the one right next the wisdom tooth, seemed tohave risen somewhat, and when his tongue touched the tooth, he felt aslightly painful sensation. After supper, however, his toothache hadpassed, and Ben-Tovit had forgotten all about it--he had made aprofitable deal on that day, had bartered an old donkey for a young,strong one, so he was very cheerful and paid no heed to any ominoussigns. And he slept very soundly. But just before daybreak something beganto disturb him, as if some one were calling him on a very importantmatter, and when Ben-Tovit awoke angrily, his teeth were aching,aching openly and maliciously, causing him an acute, drilling pain.And he could no longer understand whether it was only the same tooththat had ached on the previous day, or whether others had joined thattooth; Ben-Tovit's entire mouth and his head were filled withterrible sensations of pain, as though he had been forced to chewthousands of sharp, red-hot nails, he took some water into his mouthfrom an earthen jug--for a minute the acuteness of the pain subsided,his teeth twitched and swayed like a wave, and this sensation waseven pleasant as compared with the other. Ben-Tovit lay down again, recalled his new donkey, and thought howhappy he would have been if not for his toothache, and he wanted tofall asleep. But the water was warm, and five minutes later histoothache began to rage more severely than ever; Ben-Tovit sat up inhis bed and swayed back and forth like a pendulum. His face becamewrinkled and seemed to have shrunk, and a drop of cold perspirationwas hanging on his nose, which had turned pale from his sufferings.Thus, swaying back and forth and groaning for pain, he met the firstrays of the sun, which was destined to see Golgotha and the threecrosses, and grow dim from horror and sorrow. Ben-Tovit was a good and kind man, who hated any injustice, but whenhis wife awoke he said many unpleasant things to her, opening hismouth with difficulty, and he complained that he was left alone, likea jackal, to groan and writhe for pain. His wife met the undeservedreproaches patiently, for she knew that they came not from an angryheart--and she brought him numerous good remedies: rats' litter to beapplied to his cheek, some strong liquid in which a scorpion waspreserved, and a real chip of the tablets that Moses had broken. Hebegan to feel a little better from the rats' litter, but not forlong, also from the liquid and the stone, but the pain returned eachtime with renewed intensity. During the moments of rest Ben-Tovit consoled himself with thethought of the little donkey, and he dreamed of him, and when he feltworse he moaned, scolded his wife, and threatened to dash his headagainst a rock if the pain should not subside. He kept pacing backand forth on the flat roof of his house from one corner to the other,feeling ashamed to come close to the side facing the street, for hishead was tied around with a kerchief like that of a woman. Severaltimes children came running to him and told him hastily about Jesusof Nazareth. Ben-Tovit paused, listened to them for a while, hisface wrinkled, but then he stamped his foot angrily and chased themaway. He was a kind man and he loved children, but now he was angryat them for bothering him with trifles. It was disagreeable to him that a large crowd had gathered in thestreet and on the neighbouring roofs, doing nothing and lookingcuriously at Ben-Tovit, who had his head tied around with a kerchieflike a woman. He was about to go down, when his wife said to him: "Look, they are leading robbers there. Perhaps that will divert you." "Let me alone. Don't you see how I am suffering?" Ben-Tovitanswered angrily. But there was a vague promise in his wife's words that there mightbe a relief for his toothache, so he walked over to the parapetunwillingly. Bending his head on one side, closing one eye, andsupporting his cheek with his hand, his face assumed a squeamish,weeping expression, and he looked down to the street. On the narrow street, going uphill, an enormous crowd was movingforward in disorder, covered with dust and shouting uninterruptedly.In the middle of the crowd walked the criminals, bending down underthe weight of their crosses, and over them the scourges of the Romansoldiers were wriggling about like black snakes. One of the men, heof the long light hair, in a torn blood-stained cloak, stumbled overa stone which was thrown under his feet, and he fell. The shoutinggrew louder, and the crowd, like coloured sea water, closed in aboutthe man on the ground. Ben-Tovit suddenly shuddered for pain; hefelt as though some one had pierced a red-hot needle into his toothand turned it there; he groaned and walked away from the parapet,angry and squeamishly indifferent. "How they are shouting!" he said enviously, picturing to himselftheir wide-open mouths with strong, healthy teeth, and how he himselfwould have shouted if he had been well. This intensified histoothache, and he shook his muffled head frequently, and roared:"Moo-Moo...." "They say that He restored sight to the blind," said his wife, whoremained standing at the parapet, and she threw down a littlecobblestone near the place where Jesus, lifted by the whips, wasmoving slowly. "Of course, of course! He should have cured my toothache," repliedBen-Tovit ironically, and he added bitterly with irritation: "Whatdust they have kicked up! Like a herd of cattle! They should all bedriven away with a stick! Take me down, Sarah!" The wife proved to be right. The spectacle had diverted Ben-Tovitslightly--perhaps it was the rats' litter that had helped after all--he succeeded in falling asleep. When he awoke, his toothache hadpassed almost entirely, and only a little inflammation had formedover his right jaw. His wife told him that it was not noticeable atall, but Ben-Tovit smiled cunningly--he knew how kind-hearted hiswife was and how fond she was of telling him pleasant things. Samuel, the tanner, a neighbour of Ben-Tovit's, came in, and Ben-Tovitled him to see the new little donkey and listened proudly to the warmpraises for himself and his animal. Then, at the request of the curious Sarah, the three went to Golgothato see the people who had been crucified. On the way Ben-Tovit toldSamuel in detail how he had felt a pain in his right jaw on the daybefore, and how he awoke at night with a terrible toothache. Toillustrate it he made a martyr's face, closing his eyes, shook hishead, and groaned while the grey-bearded Samuel nodded his headcompassionately and said: "Oh, how painful it must have been!" Ben-Tovit was pleased with Samuel's attitude, and he repeated thestory to him, then went back to the past, when his first tooth wasspoiled on the left side. Thus, absorbed in a lively conversation,they reached Golgotha. The sun, which was destined to shine upon theworld on that terrible day, had already set beyond the distant hills,and in the west a narrow, purple-red strip was burning, like a stainof blood. The crosses stood out darkly but vaguely against thisbackground, and at the foot of the middle cross white kneelingfigures were seen indistinctly. The crowd had long dispersed; it was growing chilly, and after aglance at the crucified men, Ben-Tovit took Samuel by the arm andcarefully turned him in the direction toward his house. He felt thathe was particularly eloquent just then, and he was eager to finishthe story of his toothache. Thus they walked, and Ben-Tovit made amartyr's face, shook his head and groaned skilfully, while Samuelnodded compassionately and uttered exclamations from time to time,and from the deep, narrow defiles, out of the distant, burningplains, rose the black night. It seemed as though it wished to hidefrom the view of heaven the great crime of the earth. 7.5 Add  On The Day of the Crucifixion to your library.Return to the Leonid Andreyev library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Crushed Flower  Add  On The Day of the Crucifixion to your library.Return to the Leonid Andreyev library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Crushed Flower Return to the Leonid Andreyev library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Crushed Flower Return to the Leonid Andreyev library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Crushed Flower