Harry was lazy, and although he had nothing else to do but drive his goat daily to pasture, he nevertheless groaned when he went home after his day's work was done.  said he,  He seated himself, collected his thoughts, and considered how he could set his shoulders free from this burden. For a long time all thinking was to no purpose, but suddenly it was as if scales fell from his eyes.  he cried, \n\n\tSo Harry got up, set his weary legs in motion, and went right across the street, for it was no farther, to where the parents of fat Trina lived, and asked for their industrious and virtuous daughter in marriage. The parents did not reflect long.  they thought, and consented.\n\n\tSo fat Trina became Harry's wife, and led out both the goats. Harry had a good time of it, and had no work that he required to rest from but his own idleness. He only went out with her now and then, and said, \n\n\tBut fat Trina was no less idle.  said she one day,   replied Harry. \n\n\tThe neighbor willingly gave a beehive for the two goats. The bees flew in and out from early morning till late evening without ever tiring, and filled the hive with the most beautiful honey, so that in autumn Harry was able to take a whole pitcherful out of it.\n\n\tThey placed the jug on a board which was fixed to the wall of their bed-room, and as they were afraid that it might be stolen from them, or that the mice might find it, Trina brought in a stout hazel-stick and put it beside her bed, so that without unnecessary getting up she might reach it with her hand, and drive away the uninvited guests. Lazy Harry did not like to leave his bed before noon.  said he, \n\n\tOne morning when he was still lying amongst the feathers in broad daylight, resting after his long sleep, he said to his wife,   answered Trina,   said Harry,   replied Trina,  cried she in her zeal, and seized the stick which she had to drive the mice away with,  She reached her arm out to strike, but unhappily hit the honey-pitcher above the bed. The pitcher struck against the wall and fell down in fragments, and the fine honey streamed down on the ground.  said Harry,  And then as he saw that there was still some honey in one of the fragments he stretched out his hand for it, and said quite gaily,   answered Trina, \n\n\t5.3                