A lady sat reading. She was so absorbed in her book as to be nearly motionless. Her face, in repose, was serious, almost sad; for twice a score of years had not passed without leaving the shadow of a cloud or the mark of a tempest. The door opened, and, as she looked up, pleasant smile lay softly on her lips. A beautiful girl, elegantly attired for an evening party, came in.  said the lady, closing her volume, and looking at the maiden with a lively interest, that blended thoughtfulness with affection.  aunt Helen.  Tone, expression, and manner, all gave plainly enough speaker's own answer to her questions. She thought the make up splendid--the effect striking.  A thin veil of shadows fell over the bright young countenance.      Alice unclasped, with a faint sigh, one of the bracelets, and laid it on her aunt's bureau.  she asked.    Alice stood for a while pondering her aunt's suggestion. Then, with half-forced cheerfulness of tone, she answered,--    said Alice, her color much heightened,   was gently answered,     Alice made a quick interruption.    Alice stood silent, with a clouded face. Her aunt looked at her watch.   said Alice, with a slight betrayal of impatience.  Alice withdrew, silent, almost hurt, though not offended, and more than half resolved to give up the party. But certainly recollections checked this forming resolve before it reached a state of full decision.  She pushed open the door of her aunt's room half an hour afterwards with this sentence on her lips. Her cheeks were glowing, and her eyes full of sparkles. So complete was the change, that for a brief space the aunt gazed at her wonderingly. She wore a handsome fawn-colored silk, made high in the neck, around which was a narrow lace collar of exceeding fineness, pinned with a single diamond. A linked band of gold, partly hidden by the lace undersleeve, clasped one of her wrists. A small spray of pearls and silver formed the only ornament for her hair, and nestled, beautifully contrasted among its dark and glossy braids.  replied aunt Helen, in no feigned admiration.  And she arose and kissed her nice lovingly.  Alice smiled.    was asked.    The maiden stooped, and kissed her aunt affectionately.  When Alice entered the drawing-room, where the company were assembling her eyes were almost dazzled with the glitter of jewelry and the splendor of colors. Most of the ladies present seemed ambitious of display, emulous of ornament. She felt out of place, in her grave and simple costume, and moved to a part of the room where she would be away from observation. But her eyes were soon wandering about, scanning forms and faces, not from simple curiosity, but with an interest that was visible in her countenance. She looked for the presence of one who had been, of late, much in her thoughts: of one for whose eyes, more than for the eyes of any other, she apparelled herself with that studied effect which received so little approval from her aunt Helen. Alice felt sober. If she entertained doubts touching her change of dress they were gone now. Plainly, to her convictions, aunt Helen was wrong and she had been wrong in yielding her own best judgement of the case. Alice had been seated only for a little while, when she saw the young man to whom we have just referred. He was standing at the extreme end of the room, talking in a lively manner with a gayly-dressed girl, who seemed particularly pleased with his attentions. Beside her Alice would have seemed almost Quaker-like in plainness. And Alice felt this with something like a pang. Soon they passed across the room, approaching very near, and stood within a few feet of her for several minutes. Then they moved away, and sit down together not far off, still chatting in the lively manner at first observed. Once or twice the young man appeared to look directly at Alice, but no sign of recognition was visible on his face. After the first emotions of disappointment in not being recognized had subsided, the thoughts of Alice began to lift her out of the state in much she bad been resting.  she said to herself,  With the help of pride she rose above the weakness that was depressing her. A lady friend joined her at the moment, and she was soon interested in conversation.  said this friend in a familiar way,   replied Alice,   At this name the heart of Alice leaped.  Mr. Benton, who had been, of late, so much in her thought, now stood bowing before the two young ladies, thus arresting their conversation. The last speaker was right. Alice had drawn him across the room, as was quickly apparent, for to her alone he was soon addressing himself. To quite the extent allowable in good breeding, was Alice monopolized by Mr. Benton during the evening and when he left her, with scarcely-concealed reluctance, another would take his place, and enjoy the charm of her fine intelligence.  she heard one gentleman ask of another, as she stood near a window opening into the conservatory, and partly hidden by curtains.  was the answer.   She heard no more. But this was enough.  said aunt Helen, when she meet her niece on the next morning.  Her color deepened and her eyes grew brighter.     The aunt smiled.  The question was in jest; but aunt Helen saw instantly into the heart of her niece. For a moment their eyes lingered in each other; then Alice looked down upon the floor.  The answer was in a softer voice, and then followed a long-drawn inspiration, succeeded by the faintest of sighs. A visit from Mr. Benton, on the next evening, removed all doubt from the dress question, if any remained.   