

	Then St. Peter went a different road, but Brother Lustig thought, 'It is a good thing that he has taken himself off, he is certainly a strange saint, after all.' Then he had money enough, but did not know how to manage it, squandered it, gave it away, and and when some time had gone by, once more had nothing. Then he arrived in a certain country where he heard that a King's daughter was dead. 'Oh, ho!' thought he, 'that may be a good thing for me; I will bring her to life again, and see that I am paid as I ought to be.' So he went to the King, and offered to raise the dead girl to life again. Now the King had heard that a discharged soldier was traveling about and bringing dead persons to life again, and thought that Brother Lustig was the man; but as he had no confidence in him, he consulted his councillors first, who said that he might give it a trial as his daughter was dead. Then Brother Lustig ordered water to be brought to him in a kettle, bade every one go out, cut the limbs off, threw them in the water and lighted a fire beneath, just as he had seen St. Peter do. The water began to boil, the flesh fell off, and then he took the bones out and laid them on the table, but he did not know the order in which to lay them, and placed them all wrong and in confusion. Then he stood before them and said, 'In the name of the most holy Trinity, dead maiden, I bid thee arise,' and he said this thrice, but the bones did not stir. So he said it thrice more, but also in vain: 'Confounded girl that you are, get up!' cried he, 'Get up, or it shall be worse for you!' When he had said that, St. Peter suddenly appeared in his former shape as a discharged soldier; he entered by the window and said, 'Godless man, what art thou doing? How can the dead maiden arise, when thou hast thrown about her bones in such confusion?' 'Dear brother, I have done everything to the best of my ability,' he answered. 'This once, I will help thee out of thy difficulty, but one thing I tell thee, and that is that if ever thou undertakest anything of the kind again, it will be the worse for thee, and also that thou must neither demand nor accept the smallest thing from the King for this!' Thereupon St. Peter laid the bones in their right order, said to the maiden three times, 'In the name of the most holy Trinity, dead maiden, arise,' and the King's daughter arose, healthy and beautiful as before. Then St. Peter went away again by the window, and Brother Lustig was rejoiced to find that all had passed off so well, but was very much vexed to think that after all he was not to take anything for it. 'I should just like to know,' thought he, 'what fancy that fellow has got in his head, for what he gives with one hand he takes away with the other there is no sense whatever in it!' Then the King offered Brother Lustig whatsoever he wished to have, but he did not dare to take anything; however, by hints and cunning, he contrived to make the King order his knapsack to be filled with gold for him, and with that he departed. When he got out, St. Peter was standing by the door, and said, 'Just look what a man thou art; did I not forbid thee to take anything, and there thou hast thy knapsack full of gold!' 'How can I help that,' answered Brother Lustig, 'if people will put it in for me?' 'Well, I tell thee this, that if ever thou settest about anything of this kind again thou shalt suffer for it!' 'Eh, brother, have no fear, now I have money, why should I trouble myself with washing bones?' 'Faith,' said St. Peter, 'the gold will last a long time! In order that after this thou mayst never tread in forbidden paths, I will bestow on thy knapsack this property, namely, that whatsoever thou wishest to have inside it, shall be there. Farewell, thou wilt now never see me more.' 'Good-bye,' said Brother Lustig, and thought to himself, 'I am very glad that thou hast taken thyself off, thou strange fellow; I shall certainly not follow thee.' But of the magical power which had been bestowed on his knapsack, he thought no more.