

	On this the King was satisfied, and the other continued, 'In fourteen days, I will come and fetch it.' Thereupon he summoned together all the tailors in the whole kingdom, and they were to sit for fourteen days and sew a sack. And when it was ready, the strong one who could tear up trees had to take it on his back, and go with it to the King. Then said the King, 'Who can that strong fellow be who is carrying a bundle of linen on his back that is as big as a house?' and he was alarmed and said, 'What a lot of gold he can carry away!' Then he commanded a ton of gold to be brought; it took sixteen of his strongest men to carry it, but the strong one snatched it up in one hand, put it in his sack, and said, 'Why don't you bring more at the same time? that hardly covers the bottom!' Then, little by little, the King caused all his treasure to be brought thither, and the strong one pushed it into the sack, and still the sack was not half full with it. 'Bring more,' cried he, 'these few crumbs don't fill it.' Then seven thousand carts with gold had to be gathered together in the whole kingdom, and the strong one thrust them and the oxen harnessed to them into his sack. 'I will examine it no longer,' said he, 'but will just take what comes, so long as the sack is but full.' When all that was inside, there was still room for a great deal more; Then he said, 'I will just make an end of the thing; people do sometimes tie up a sack even when it is not full.' So he took it on his back, and went away with his comrades. When the King now saw how one single man was carrying away the entire wealth of the country, he became enraged, and bade his horsemen mount and pursue the six, and ordered them to take the sack away from the strong one. Two regiments speedily overtook the six, and called out, 'You are prisoners, put down the sack with the gold, or you will all be cut to pieces!' 'What say you?' cried the blower, 'that we are prisoners! Rather than that should happen, all of you shall dance about in the air.' And he closed one nostril, and with the other blew on the two regiments. Then they were driven away from each other, and carried into the blue sky over all the mountains one here, the other there. One sergeant cried for mercy; he had nine wounds, and was a brave fellow who did not deserve ill treatment. The blower stopped a little so that he came down without injury, and then the blower said to him, 'Now go home to thy King, and tell him he had better send some more horsemen, and I will blow them all into the air.' When the King was informed of this he said, 'Let the rascals go. They have the best of it.' Then the six conveyed the riches home, divided it amongst them, and lived in content until their death.