

	Not long afterwards, the country was overrun by war. The King gathered together his people, and did not know whether or not he could offer any opposition to the enemy, who was superior in strength and had a mighty army. Then said the gardener's boy, 'I am grown up, and will go to the wars also, only give me a horse.' The others laughed, and said, 'Seek one for thyself when we are gone, we will leave one behind us in the stable for thee.' When they had gone forth, he went into the stable, and got the horse out; it was lame of one foot, and limped hobblety jig, hobblety jig; nevertheless he mounted it, and rode away to the dark forest. When he came to the outskirts, he called 'Iron John,' three times so loudly that it echoed through the trees. Thereupon the wild man appeared immediately, and said, 'What dost thou desire?' 'I want a strong steed, for I am going to the wars.' 'That thou shalt have, and still more than thou askest for.' Then the wild man went back into the forest, and it was not long before a stable-boy came out of it, who led a horse that snorted with its nostrils, and could hardly be restrained, and behind them followed a great troop of soldiers entirely equipped in iron, and their swords flashed in the sun. The youth made over his three-legged horse to the stable-boy, mounted the other, and rode at the head of the soldiers. When he got near the battle-field a great part of the King's men had already fallen, and little was wanting to make the rest give way. Then the youth galloped thither with his iron soldiers, broke like a hurricane over the enemy, and beat down all who opposed him. They began to fly, but the youth pursued, and never stopped, until there was not a single man left. Instead, however, of returning to the King, he conducted his troop by bye-ways back to the forest, and called forth Iron John. 'What dost thou desire?' asked the wild man. 'Take back thy horse and thy troops, and give me my three-legged horse again.' All that he asked was done, and soon he was riding on his three-legged horse. When the King returned to his palace, his daughter went to meet him, and wished him joy of his victory. 'I am not the one who carried away the victory,' said he, 'but a stranger knight who came to my assistance with his soldiers.' The daughter wanted to hear who the strange knight was, but the King did not know, and said, 'He followed the enemy, and I did not see him again.' She inquired of the gardener where his boy was, but he smiled, and said, 'He has just come home on his three-legged horse, and the others have been mocking him, and crying, 'Here comes our hobblety jig back again!' They asked, too, 'Under what hedge hast thou been lying sleeping all the time?' He, however, said, 'I did the best of all, and it would have gone badly without me.' And then he was still more ridiculed.'