

	'Church-door, break not, I am not the true bride.'

	'That will break thy neck for thee!' cried the bride, and flew into a terrible passion, but she hastened back into the room, and said, 'I know now what I said to the church-door,' and she repeated the words. 'But where hast thou the jewel which I gave thee at the church-door?' 'What jewel?' she answered; 'thou didst not give me any jewel.' 'I myself put it round thy neck, and I myself fastened it; if thou dost not know that, thou art not the true bride.' He drew the veil from her face, and when he saw her immeasurable ugliness, he sprang back terrified, and said, 'How comest thou here? Who art thou?' 'I am thy betrothed bride, but because I feared lest the people should mock me when they saw me out of doors, I commanded the scullery-maid to dress herself in my clothes, and to go to church instead of me.' 'Where is the girl?' said he; 'I want to see her, go and bring her here.' She went out and told the servants that the scullery-maid was an impostor, and that they must take her out into the court-yard and strike off her head. The servants laid hold of Maid Maleen and wanted to drag her out, but she screamed so loudly for help, that the King's son heard her voice, hurried out of his chamber and ordered them to set the maiden free instantly. Lights were brought, and then he saw on her neck the gold chain which he had given her at the church-door. 'Thou art the true bride,' said he, 'who went with me to the church; come with me now to my room.' When they were both alone, he said, 'On the way to church thou didst name Maid Maleen, who was my betrothed bride; if I could believe it possible, I should think she was standing before me thou art like her in every respect.' She answered, 'I am Maid Maleen, who for thy sake was imprisoned seven years in the darkness, who suffered hunger and thirst, and has lived so long in want and poverty. To-day, however, the sun is shining on me once more. I was married to thee in the church, and I am thy lawful wife.' Then they kissed each other, and were happy all the days of their lives. The false bride was rewarded for what she had done by having her head cut off.