

	He remained in the palace a couple of days, and in the meantime inquired into everything which related to the enchanted forest, and at last he said, 'I must hunt there once more.' The King and the young Queen wanted to persuade him not to do it, but he stood out against them, and went forth with a larger following. When he had got into the forest, it fared with him as with his brother; he saw a white hart and said to his people, 'Stay here, and wait until I return, I want to chase the lovely wild beast,' and then he rode into the forest and his animals ran after him. But he could not overtake the hart, and got so deep into the forest that he was forced to pass the night there. And when he had lighted a fire, he heard some one wailing above him, 'Oh, oh, oh, how cold I am!' Then he looked up, and the self-same witch was sitting in the tree. Said he, 'If thou art cold, come down, little old mother, and warm thyself.' She answered, 'No, thy animals will bite me.' But he said, 'They will not hurt thee.' Then she cried, 'I will throw down a wand to thee, and if thou smitest them with it they will do me no harm.' When the huntsman heard that, he had no confidence in the old woman, and said, 'I will not strike my animals. Come down, or I will fetch thee.' Then she cried, 'What dost thou want? Thou shalt not touch me.' But he replied, 'If thou dost not come, I will shoot thee.' Said she, 'Shoot away, I do not fear thy bullets!' Then he aimed, and fired at her, but the witch was proof against all leaden bullets, and laughed, and yelled and cried, 'Thou shalt not hit me.' The huntsman knew what to do, tore three silver buttons off his coat, and loaded his gun with them, for against them her arts were useless, and when he fired she fell down at once with a scream. Then he set his foot on her and said, Old witch, if thou dost not instantly confess where my brother is, I will seize thee with both my hands and throw thee into the fire. She was in a great fright, begged for mercy and said, He and his animals lie in a vault, turned to stone. Then he compelled her to go thither with him, threatened her, and said, Old sea-cat, now shalt thou make my brother and all the human beings lying here, alive again, or thou shalt go into the fire! She took a wand and touched the stones, and then his brother with his animals came to life again, and many others, merchants, artizans, and shepherds, arose, thanked him for their deliverance, and went to their homes. But when the twin brothers saw each other again, they kissed each other and rejoiced with all their hearts. Then they seized the witch, bound her and laid her on the fire, and when she was burnt the forest opened of its own accord, and was light and clear, and the King's palace could be seen at about the distance of a three hours walk.