

	Next day when the wedding was to take place, the huntsman said at mid-day to the inn-keeper, 'Do you believe, sir host, that I while with you here to-day shall eat bread from the King's own table?' 'Nay,' said the host, 'I would bet a hundred pieces of gold that that will not come true.' The huntsman accepted the wager, and set against it a purse with just the same number of gold pieces. Then he called the hare and said, 'Go, my dear runner, and fetch me some of the bread which the King is eating.' Now the little hare was the lowest of the animals, and could not transfer this order to any the others, but had to get on his legs himself. 'Alas!' thought he, 'if I bound through the streets thus alone, the butchers' dogs will all be after me.' It happened as he expected, and the dogs came after him and wanted to make holes in his good skin. But he sprang away, have you have never seen one running? and sheltered himself in a sentry-box without the soldier being aware of it. Then the dogs came and wanted to have him out, but the soldier did not understand a jest, and struck them with the butt-end of his gun, till they ran away yelling and howling. As soon as the hare saw that the way was clear, he ran into the palace and straight to the King's daughter, sat down under her chair, and scratched at her foot. Then she said, 'Wilt thou get away?' and thought it was her dog. The hare scratched her foot for the second time, and she again said, 'Wilt thou get away?' and thought it was her dog. But the hare did not let itself be turned from its purpose, and scratched her for the third time. Then she peeped down, and knew the hare by its collar. She took him on her lap, carried him into her chamber, and said, 'Dear Hare, what dost thou want?' He answered, 'My master, who killed the dragon, is here, and has sent me to ask for a loaf of bread like that which the King eats.' Then she was full of joy and had the baker summoned, and ordered him to bring a loaf such as was eaten by the King. The little hare said, 'But the baker must likewise carry it thither for me, that the butchers' dogs may do no harm to me.' The baker carried if for him as far as the door of the inn, and then the hare got on his hind legs, took the loaf in his front paws, and carried it to his master. Then said the huntsman, 'Behold, sir host, the hundred pieces of gold are mine.' The host was astonished, but the huntsman went on to say, 'Yes, sir host, I have the bread, but now I will likewise have some of the King's roast meat.'