

	And now the King's son and his six servants came to the town where the aged Queen dwelt. He did not tell her who he was, but said, 'If you will give me your beautiful daughter, I will perform any task you set me.' The sorceress was delighted to get such a handsome youth as this into her net, and said, 'I will set thee three tasks, and if thou art able to perform them all, thou shalt be husband and master of my daughter.' 'What is the first to be?' 'Thou shalt fetch me my ring which I have dropped into the Red Sea.' So the King's son went home to his servants and said, 'The first task is not easy. A ring is to be got out of the Red Sea. Come, find some way of doing it.' Then the man with the sharp sight said, 'I will see where it is lying,' and looked down into the water and said, 'It is sticking there, on a pointed stone.' The Tall One carried them thither, and said, 'I would soon get it out, if I could only see it.' 'Oh, is that all!' cried the Stout One, and lay down and put his mouth to the water, on which all the waves fell into it just as if it had been a whirlpool, and he drank up the whole sea till it was as dry as a meadow. The Tall One stooped down a little, and brought out the ring with his hand. Then the King's son rejoiced when he had the ring, and took it to the old Queen. She was astonished, and said, 'Yes, it is the right ring. Thou hast safely performed the first task, but now comes the second. Dost thou see the meadow in front of my palace? Three hundred fat oxen are feeding there, and these must thou eat, skin, hair, bones, horns and all, and down below in my cellar lie three hundred casks of wine, and these thou must drink up as well, and if one hair of the oxen, or one little drop of the wine is left, thy life will be forfeited to me.' 'May I invite no guests to this repast?' inquired the prince, 'no dinner is good without some company.' The old woman laughed maliciously, and replied, 'Thou mayst invite one for the sake of companionship, but no more.'