

	By daybreak the drummer arose, buckled on his drum, and went without fear straight into the forest. After he had walked for a while without seeing any giants, he thought to himself, 'I must waken up the sluggards,' and he hung his drum before him, and beat such a reveille that the birds flew out of the trees with loud cries. It was not long before a giant who had been lying sleeping among the grass, rose up, and was as tall as a fir-tree. 'Wretch!' cried he; 'what art thou drumming here for, and wakening me out of my best sleep?' 'I am drumming,' he replied, 'because I want to show the way to many thousands who are following me.' 'What do they want in my forest?' demanded the giant. 'They want to put an end to thee, and cleanse the forest of such a monster as thou art!' 'Oho!' said the giant, 'I will trample you all to death like so many ants.' 'Dost thou think thou canst do anything against us?' said the drummer; 'if thou stoopest to take hold of one, he will jump away and hide himself; but when thou art lying down and sleeping, they will come forth from every thicket, and creep up to thee. Every one of them has a hammer of steel in his belt, and with that they will beat in thy skull.' The giant grew angry and thought, 'If I meddle with the crafty folk, it might turn out badly for me. I can strangle wolves and bears, but I cannot protect myself from these earth-worms.' 'Listen, little fellow,' said he; 'go back again, and I will promise you that for the future I will leave you and your comrades in peace, and if there is anything else you wish for, tell me, for I am quite willing to do something to please you.' 'Thou hast long legs,' said the drummer, 'and canst run quicker than I; carry me to the glass-mountain, and I will give my followers a signal to go back, and they shall leave thee in peace this time.' 'Come here, worm,' said the giant; 'seat thyself on my shoulder, I will carry thee where thou wishest to be.' The giant lifted him up, and the drummer began to beat his drum up aloft to his heart's delight. The giant thought, 'That is the signal for the other people to turn back.'