

	Then each of them went his way, and the eldest met a man who asked him where he was going, and what he was intending to do? 'I want to learn a trade,' he replied. Then the other said, 'Come with me, and be a thief.' 'No,' he answered, 'that is no longer regarded as a reputable trade, and the end of it is that one has to swing on the gallows.' 'Oh,' said the man, 'you need not be afraid of the gallows; I will only teach you to get such things as no other man could ever lay hold of, and no one will ever detect you.' So he allowed himself to be talked into it, and while with the man became an accomplished thief, and so dexterous that nothing was safe from him, if he once desired to have it. The second brother met a man who put the same question to him what he wanted to learn in the world. 'I don't know yet,' he replied. 'Then come with me, and be an astronomer; there is nothing better than that, for nothing is hid from you.' He liked the idea, and became such a skillful astronomer that when he had learnt everything, and was about to travel onwards, his master gave him a telescope and said to him, 'With that you canst thou see whatsoever takes place either on earth or in heaven, and nothing can remain concealed from thee.' A huntsman took the third brother into training, and gave him such excellent instruction in everything which related to huntsmanship, that he became an experienced hunter. When he went away, his master gave him a gun and said, 'It will never fail you; whatsoever you aim at, you are certain to hit.' The youngest brother also met a man who spoke to him, and inquired what his intentions were. 'Would you not like to be a tailor?' said he. 'Not that I know of,' said the youth; 'sitting doubled up from morning till night, driving the needle and the goose backwards and forwards, is not to my taste.' 'Oh, but you are speaking in ignorance,' answered the man; 'with me you would learn a very different kind of tailoring, which is respectable and proper, and for the most part very honorable.' So he let himself be persuaded, and went with the man, and learnt his art from the very beginning. When they parted, the man gave the youth a needle, and said, 'With this you can sew together whatever is given you, whether it is as soft as an egg or as hard as steel; and it will all become one piece of stuff, so that no seam will be visible.'