

	'Where hast thou been racing about?' said the father; 'why hast thou forgotten thy work? I said at once that thou wouldst never get on with anything.' 'Be easy, father, I will make it up.' 'Make it up indeed,' said the father angrily, 'there's no art in that.' 'Take care, father, I will soon hew that tree there, so that it will split.' Then he took his plaster, rubbed the axe with it, and dealt a mighty blow, but as the iron had changed into silver, the edge turned; 'Hollo, father, just look what a bad axe you've given me, it has become quite crooked.' The father was shocked and said, 'Ah, what hast thou done? now I shall have to pay for that, and have not the wherewithal, and that is all the good I have got by thy work.' 'Don't get angry,' said the son, 'I will soon pay for the axe.' 'Oh, thou blockhead,' cried the father, 'wherewith wilt thou pay for it? Thou hast nothing but what I give thee. These are students' tricks that are sticking in thy head, but thou hast no idea of wood-cutting.' After a while the scholar said, 'Father, I can really work no more, we had better take a holiday.' 'Eh, what!' answered he, 'Dost thou think I will sit with my hands lying in my lap like thee? I must go on working, but thou mayst take thyself off home.' 'Father, I am here in this wood for the first time, I don't know my way alone. Do go with me.' As his anger had now abated, the father at last let himself be persuaded and went home with him. Then he said to the son, 'Go and sell thy damaged axe, and see what thou canst get for it, and I must earn the difference, in order to pay the neighbour.' The son took the axe, and carried it into town to a goldsmith, who tested it, laid it in the scales, and said, 'It is worth four hundred thalers, I have not so much as that by me.' The son said, 'Give me what thou hast, I will lend you the rest.' The goldsmith gave him three hundred thalers, and remained a hundred in his debt. The son thereupon went home and said, 'Father, I have got the money, go and ask the neighbour what he wants for the axe.' 'I know that already,' answered the old man, 'one thaler, six groschen.' 'Then give him him two thalers, twelve groschen, that is double and enough; see, I have money in plenty,' and he gave the father a hundred thalers, and said, 'You shall never know want, live as comfortably as you like.' 'Good heavens!' said the father, 'how hast thou come by these riches?' The scholar then told how all had come to pass, and how he, trusting in his luck, had made such a good hit. But with the money that was left, he went back to the High School and went on learning more, and as he could heal all wounds with his plaster, he became the most famous doctor in the whole world.