There was once a King who had an illness, and no one believed that he would come out of it with his life. He had three sons who were much distressed about it, and went down into the palace-garden and wept. There they met an old man who inquired as to the cause of their grief. They told him that their father was so ill that he would most certainly die, for nothing seemed to cure him. Then the old man said, 'I know of one more remedy, and that is the water of life; if he drinks of it he will become well again; but it is hard to find.' The eldest said, 'I will manage to find it,' and went to the sick King, and begged to be allowed to go forth in search of the water of life, for that alone could save him. 'No,' said the King, 'the danger of it is too great. I would rather die.' But he begged so long that the King consented. The prince thought in his heart, 'If I bring the water, then I shall be best beloved of my father, and shall inherit the kingdom.' So he set out, and when he had ridden forth a little distance, a dwarf stood there in the road who called to him and said, 'Whither away so fast?' 'Silly shrimp,' said the prince, very haughtily, 'it is nothing to do with you,' and rode on. But the little dwarf had grown angry, and had wished an evil wish. Soon after this the prince entered a ravine, and the further he rode the closer the mountains drew together, and at last the road became so narrow that he could not advance a step further; it was impossible either to turn his horse or to dismount from the saddle, and he was shut in there as if in prison. The sick King waited long for him, but he came not. Then the second son said, 'Father, let me go forth to seek the water,' and thought to himself, 'If my brother is dead, then the kingdom will fall to me.' At first the King would not allow him to go either, but at last he yielded, so the prince set out on the same road that his brother had taken, and he too met the dwarf, who stopped him to ask, whither he was going in such haste? 'Little shrimp,' said the prince, 'that is nothing to thee,' and rode on without giving him another look. But the dwarf bewitched him, and he, like the other, rode into a ravine, and could neither go forwards nor backwards. So fare haughty people.