

	Then the King's daughter looked at the drummer, and when she saw that he was a handsome youth and remembered how he had risked his life to deliver her, she gave him her hand, and said, 'Thou hast ventured everything for my sake, but I also will do everything for thine. Promise to be true to me, and thou shalt be my husband. We shall not want for riches, we shall have enough with what the witch has gathered together here.' She led him into the house, where there were chests and coffers crammed with the old woman's treasures. The maiden left the gold and silver where it was, and took only the precious stones. She would not stay any longer on the glass-mountain, so the drummer said to her, 'Seat thyself by me on my saddle, and then we will fly down like birds.' 'I do not like the old saddle,' said she, 'I need only turn my wishing-ring and we shall be at home.' 'Very well, then,' answered the drummer, 'then wish us in front of the town-gate.' In the twinkling of an eye they were there, but the drummer said, 'I will just go to my parents and tell them the news, wait for me outside here, I shall soon be back.' 'Ah,' said the King's daughter, 'I beg thee to be careful. On thy arrival do not kiss thy parents on the right cheek, or else thou wilt forget everything, and I shall stay behind here outside, alone and deserted.' 'How can I forget thee?' said he, and promised her to come back very soon, and gave his hand upon it. When he went into his father's house, he had changed so much that no one knew who he was, for the three days which he had passed on the glass-mountain had been three years. Then he made himself known, and his parents fell on his neck with joy, and his heart was so moved that he forgot what the maiden had said, and kissed them on both cheeks. But when he had given them the kiss on the right cheek, every thought of the King's daughter vanished from him. He emptied out his pockets, and laid handfuls of the largest jewels on the table. The parents had not the least idea what to do with the riches. Then the father built a magnificent castle all surrounded by gardens, woods, and meadows as if a prince were going to live in it, and when it was ready, the mother said, 'I have found a maiden for thee, and the wedding shall be in three days. The son was content to do as his parents desired.'