

	The farmer was alarmed, and said, 'No, thou art not my son; I don't want thee leave me!' 'Truly I am your son; allow me to do your work, I can plough as well as you, nay better.' 'No, no, thou art not my son; and thou canst not plough go away!' However, as he was afraid of this great man, he left go of the plough, stepped back and stood at one side of the piece of land. Then the youth took the plough, and just pressed it with one hand, but his grasp was so strong that the plough went deep into the earth. The farmer could not bear to see that, and called to him, 'If thou art determined to plough, thou must not press so hard on it, that makes bad work.' The youth, however, unharnessed the horses, and drew the plough himself, saying, 'Just go home, father, and bid my mother make ready a large dish of food, and in the meantime I will go over the field.' Then the farmer went home, and ordered his wife to prepare the food; but the youth ploughed the field which was two acres large, quite alone, and then he harnessed himself to the harrow, and harrowed the whole of the land, using two harrows at once. When he had done it, he went into the forest, and pulled up two oak-trees, laid them across his shoulders, and hung on them one harrow behind and one before, and also one horse behind and one before, and carried all as if it had been a bundle of straw, to his parents' house. When he entered the yard, his mother did not recognize him, and asked, 'Who is that horrible tall man?' The farmer said, 'That is our son.' She said, 'No that cannot be our son, we never had such a tall one, ours was a little thing.' She called to him, 'Go away, we do not want thee!' The youth was silent, but led his horses to the stable, gave them some oats and hay, and all that they wanted. When he had done this, he went into the parlour, sat down on the bench and said, 'Mother, now I should like something to eat, will it soon be ready?' Then she said, 'Yes,' and brought in two immense dishes full of food, which would have been enough to satisfy herself and her husband for a week. The youth, however, ate the whole of it himself, and asked if she had nothing more to set before him. 'No,' she replied, 'that is all we have.' 'But that was only a taste, I must have more.' She did not dare to oppose him, and went and put a huge caldron full of food on the fire, and when it was ready, carried it in. 'At length come a few crumbs,' said he, and ate all there was, but it was still not sufficient to appease his hunger. Then said he, 'Father, I see well that with you I shall never have food enough; if you will get me an iron staff which is strong, and which I cannot break against my knees, I will go out into the world.' The farmer was glad, put his two horses in his cart, and fetched from the smith a staff so large and thick, that the two horses could only just bring it away. The youth laid it across his knees, and snap! he broke it in two in the middle like a bean-stalk, and threw it away. The father then harnessed four horses, and brought a bar which was so long and thick, that the four horses could only just drag it. The son snapped this also in twain against his knees, threw it away, and said, 'Father, this can be of no use to me, you must harness more horses, and bring a stronger staff.' So the father harnessed eight horses, and brought one which was so long and thick, that the eight horses could only just carry it. When the son took it in his hand, he broke off a bit from the top of it also, and said, 'Father, I see that you will not be able to procure me any such staff as I want, I will remain no longer with you.'