

	When therefore the evening came, our little tailor was taken down to the bear. The bear was about to set at the little fellow at once, and give him a hearty welcome with his paws: 'Softly, softly,' said the little tailor, 'I will soon make thee quiet.' Then quite composedly, and as if he had not an anxiety in the world, he took some nuts out of his pocket, cracked them, and ate the kernels. When the bear saw that, he was seized with a desire to have some nuts too. The tailor felt in his pockets, and reached him a handful; they were, however, not nuts, but pebbles. The bear put them in his mouth, but could get nothing out of them, let him bite as he would. 'Eh!' thought he, 'what a stupid blockhead I am! I cannot even crack a nut!' and then he said to the tailor, 'Here, crack me the nuts.' 'There, see what a stupid fellow thou art!' said the little tailor, 'to have such a great mouth, and not be able to crack a small nut!' Then he took the pebble and nimbly put a nut in his mouth in the place of it, and crack, it was in two! 'I must try the thing again,' said the bear; 'when I watch you, I then think I ought to be able to do it too.' So the tailor once more gave him a pebble, and the bear tried and tried to bite into it with all the strength of his body. But no one will imagine that he accomplished it. When that was over, the tailor took out a violin from beneath his coat, and played a piece of it to himself. When the bear heard the music, he could not help beginning to dance, and when he had danced a while, the thing pleased him so well that he said to the little tailor, 'Hark you, is the fiddle heavy?' 'Light enough for a child. Look, with the left hand I lay my fingers on it, and with the right I stroke it with the bow, and then it goes merrily, hop sa sa vivallalera!' 'So,' said the bear; 'fiddling is a thing I should like to understand too, that I might dance whenever I had a fancy. What dost thou think of that? Wilt thou give me lessons?' 'With all my heart,' said the tailor, 'if thou hast a talent for it. But just let me see thy claws, they are terribly long, I must cut thy nails a little.' Then a vise was brought, and the bear put his claws in it, and the little tailor screwed it tight, and said, 'Now wait until I come with the scissors,' and he let the bear growl as he liked, and lay down in the corner on a bundle of straw, and fell asleep.