

	'But you have peeped into the kettles as well; it is lucky for you that you added fresh logs to them, or else your life would have been forfeited; now that your time is up, will you go home again?' 'Yes,' said the soldier, 'I should very much like to see what my father is doing at home.' The Devil said, 'In order that you may receive the wages you have earned, go and fill your knapsack full of the sweepings, and take it home with you. You must also go unwashed and uncombed, with long hair on your head and beard, and with uncut nails and dim eyes, and when you are asked whence you come, you must say, 'From hell,' and when you are asked who you are, you are to say, 'The Devil's sooty brother, and my King as well.' The soldier held his peace, and did as the Devil bade him, but he was not at all satisfied with his wages. Then as soon as he was up in the forest again, he took his knapsack from his back, to empty it, but on opening it, the sweepings had become pure gold. 'I should never have expected that,' said he, and was well pleased, and entered the town. The landlord was standing in front of the inn, and when he saw the soldier approaching, he was terrified, because Hans looked so horrible, worse than a scare-crow. He called to him and asked, 'Whence comest thou?' 'From hell.' 'Who art thou?' 'The Devil's sooty brother, and my King as well.' Then the host would not let him enter, but when Hans showed him the gold, he came and unlatched the door himself. Hans then ordered the best room and attendance, ate, and drank his fill, but neither washed nor combed himself as the Devil had bidden him, and at last lay down to sleep. But the knapsack full of gold remained before the eyes of the landlord, and left him no peace, and during the night he crept in and stole it away. Next morning, however, when Hans got up and wanted to pay the landlord and travel further, behold his knapsack was gone! But he soon composed himself and thought, 'Thou hast been unfortunate from no fault of thine own,' and straightway went back again to hell, complained of his misfortune to the old Devil, and begged for his help. The Devil said, 'Seat yourself, I will wash, comb, and trim you, cut your hair and nails, and wash your eyes for you,' and when he had done with him, he gave him the knapsack back again full of sweepings, and said, 'Go and tell the landlord that he must return you your money, or else I will come and fetch him, and he shall poke the fire in your place.' Hans went up and said to the landlord, 'Thou hast stolen my money; if thou dost not return it, thou shalt go down to hell in my place, and wilt look as horrible as I.' Then the landlord gave him the money, and more besides, only begging him to keep it secret, and Hans was now a rich man.