

	So she went continually further and further in the wide world, never looking about her or resting, and the seven years were almost past; then she rejoiced and thought that they would soon be delivered, and yet they were so far from it! Once when they were thus moving onwards, no little feather and no drop of red blood fell, and when she raised her eyes the dove had disappeared. And as she thought to herself, 'In this no man can help thee,' she climbed up to the sun, and said to him, 'Thou shinest into every crevice, and over every peak, hast thou not seen a white dove flying?' 'No,' said the sun, 'I have seen none, but I present thee with a casket, open it when thou art in sorest need.' Then she thanked the sun, and went on until evening came and the moon appeared; she then asked her, 'Thou shinest the whole night through, and on every field and forest, hast thou not seen a white dove flying?' 'No,' said the moon, 'I have seen no dove, but here I give thee an egg, break it when thou art in great need.' She thanked the moon, and went on until the night wind came up and blew on her, then she said to it, 'Thou blowest over every tree and under every leaf, hast thou not seen a white dove flying?' 'No,' said the night wind, 'I have seen none, but I will ask the three other winds, perhaps they have seen it.' The east wind and the west wind came, and had seen nothing, but the south wind said, 'I have seen the white dove, it has flown to the Red Sea, where it has become a lion again, for the seven years are over, and the lion is there fighting with a dragon; the dragon, however, is an enchanted princess.' The night wind then said to her, 'I will advise thee; go to the Red Sea, on the right bank are some tall reeds, count them, break off the eleventh, and strike the dragon with it, then the lion will be able to subdue it, and both then will regain their human form. After that, look round and thou wilt see the griffin which is by the Red Sea; swing thyself, with thy beloved, on to his back, and the bird will carry you over the sea to your own home. Here is a nut for thee, when thou are above the center of the sea, let the nut fall, it will immediately shoot up, and a tall nut-tree will grow out of the water on which the griffin may rest; for if he cannot rest, he will not be strong enough to carry you across, and if thou forgettest to throw down the nut, he will let you fall into the sea.'