

	The second son had gone to a miller and had apprenticed himself to him. When his years were over, the master said, 'As thou hast conducted thyself so well, I give thee an ass of a peculiar kind, which neither draws a cart nor carries a sack.' 'To what use is he put, then?' asked the young apprentice. 'He lets gold drop from his mouth,' answered the miller. 'If thou settest him on a cloth and sayest 'Bricklebrit,' the good animal will drop gold pieces for thee.' 'That is a fine thing,' said the apprentice, and thanked the master, and went out into the world. When he had need of gold, he had only to say 'Bricklebrit' to his ass, and it rained gold pieces, and he had nothing to do but pick them off the ground. Wheresoever he went, the best of everything was good enough for him, and the dearer the better, for he had always a full purse. When he had looked about the world for some time, he thought, 'Thou must seek out thy father; if thou goest to him with the gold-ass he will forget his anger, and receive thee well.' It came to pass that he came to the same public-house in which his brother's table had been exchanged. He led his ass by the bridle, and the host was about to take the animal from him and tie him up, but the young apprentice said, 'Don't trouble yourself, I will take my grey horse into the stable, and tie him up myself too, for I must know where he stands.' This struck the host as odd, and he thought that a man who was forced to look after his ass himself, could not have much to spend; but when the stranger put his hand in his pocket and brought out two gold pieces, and said he was to provide something good for him, the host opened his eyes wide, and ran and sought out the best he could muster. After dinner the guest asked what he owed. The host did not see why he should not double the reckoning, and said the apprentice must give two more gold pieces. He felt in his pocket, but his gold was just at an end. 'Wait an instant, sir host,' said he, 'I will go and fetch some money;' but he took the table-cloth with him. The host could not imagine what this could mean, and being curious, stole after him, and as the guest bolted the stable-door, he peeped through a hole left by a knot in the wood. The stranger spread out the cloth under the animal and cried, 'Bricklebrit,' and immediately the beast began to let gold pieces fall, so that it fairly rained down money on the ground. 'Eh, my word,' said the host, 'ducats are quickly coined there! A purse like that is not amiss.' The guest paid his score, and went to bed, but in the night the host stole down into the stable, led away the master of the mint, and tied up another ass in his place. Early next morning the apprentice travelled away with his ass, and thought that he had his gold-ass. At mid-day he reached his father, who rejoiced to see him again, and gladly took him in. 'What hast thou made of thyself, my son?' asked the old man. 'A miller,' dear father, he answered. 'What hast thou brought back with thee from thy travels?' 'Nothing else but an ass.' 'There are asses enough here,' said the father, 'I would rather have had a good goat.' 'Yes,' replied the son, 'but it is no common ass, but a gold-ass, when I say 'Bricklebrit,' the good beast opens its mouth and drops a whole sheetful of gold pieces. Just summon all our relations hither, and I will make them rich folks.' 'That suits me well,' said the tailor, 'for then I shall have no need to torment myself any longer with the needle,' and ran out himself and called the relations together. As soon as they were assembled, the miller bade them make way, spread out his cloth, and brought the ass into the room. 'Now watch,' said he, and cried, 'Bricklebrit,' but no gold pieces fell, and it was clear that the animal knew nothing of the art, for every ass does not attain such perfection. Then the poor miller pulled a long face, saw that he was betrayed, and begged pardon of the relatives, who went home as poor as they came. There was no help for it, the old man had to betake him to his needle once more, and the youth hired himself to a miller.