

	When the peasant went out by the gate, the sentry said, 'Thou hast made the King's daughter laugh, so thou wilt certainly receive something good.' 'Yes, that is what I think,' answered the peasant; 'five hundred are to be counted out to me.' 'Hark thee,' said the soldier, 'give me some of it. What canst thou do with all that money?' 'As it is thou,' said the peasant, 'thou shalt have two hundred; present thyself in three days' time before the King, and let it be paid to thee.' A Jew, who was standing by and had heard the conversation, ran after the peasant, held him by the coat, and said, 'Oh, wonder! what a luck-child thou art! I will change it for thee, I will change it for thee into small coins, what dost thou want with the great thalers?' 'Jew,' said the countryman, 'three hundred canst thou still have; give it to me at once in coin, in three days from this, thou wilt be paid for it by the King.' The Jew was delighted with the profit, and brought the sum in bad groschen, three of which were worth two good ones. After three days had passed, according to the King's command, the peasant went before the King. 'Pull his coat off,' said the latter, 'and he shall have his five hundred.' 'Ah!' said the peasant, 'they no longer belong to me; I presented two hundred of them to the sentinel, and three hundred the Jew has changed for me, so by right nothing at all belongs to me.' In the meantime the soldier and the Jew entered and claimed what they had gained from the peasant, and they received the blows strictly counted out. The soldier bore it patiently and knew already how it tasted, but the Jew said sorrowfully, 'Alas, alas, are these the heavy thalers?' The King could not help laughing at the peasant, and as all his anger was gone, he said, 'As thou hast already lost thy reward before it fell to thy lot, I will give thee something in the place of it. Go into my treasure chamber and get some money for thyself, as much as thou wilt.' The peasant did not need to be told twice, and stuffed into his big pockets whatsoever would go in. Afterwards he went to an inn and counted out his money. The Jew had crept after him and heard how he muttered to himself, 'That rogue of a King has cheated me after all, why could he not have given me the money himself, and then I should have known what I had? How can I tell now if what I have had the luck to put in my pockets is right or not?' 'Good heavens!' said the Jew to himself, 'that man is speaking disrespectfully of our lord the King, I will run and inform, and then I shall get a reward, and he will be punished as well.'