

	So she combed his hair, and he became weary and fell asleep, and then she took her handkerchief and made a knot in it, and struck it three times on the earth, and said, 'Earth-workers, come forth.' In a moment, numbers of little earth-men came forth, and asked what the King's daughter commanded? Then said she, 'In three hours' time the great forest must be cut down, and the whole of the wood laid in heaps.' So the little earth-men went about and got together the whole of their kindred to help them with the work. They began at once, and when the three hours were over, all was done, and they came back to the King's daughter and told her so. Then she took her white handkerchief again and said, 'Earth-workers, go home.' On this they all disappeared. When the King's son awoke, he was delighted, and she said, 'Come home when it has struck six o'clock.' He did as she told him, and then the King asked, 'Hast thou made away with the forest?' 'Yes,' said the King's son. When they were sitting at table, the King said, 'I cannot yet give thee my daughter to wife, thou must still do something more for her sake.' So he asked what it was to be, then? 'I have a great fish-pond,' said the King. 'Thou must go to it to-morrow morning and clear it of all mud until it is as bright as a mirror, and fill it with every kind of fish.' The next morning the King gave him a glass shovel and said, 'The fish-pond must be done by six o'clock.' So he went away, and when he came to the fish-pond he stuck his shovel in the mud and it broke in two, then he stuck his hoe in the mud, and broke it also. Then he was much troubled. At noon the youngest daughter brought him something to eat, and asked him how he was getting on? So the King's son said everything was going very ill with him, and he would certainly have to lose his head. 'My tools have broken to pieces again.' 'Oh,' said she, 'thou must just come and eat something, and then thou wilt be in another frame of mind.' 'No,' said he, 'I cannot eat, I am far too unhappy for that!' Then she gave him many good words until at last he came and ate something. Then she combed his hair again, and he fell asleep, so once more she took her handkerchief, tied a knot in it, and struck the ground thrice with the knot, and said, 'Earth-workers, come forth.' In a moment a great many little earth-men came and asked what she desired, and she told them that in three hours' time, they must have the fish-pond entirely cleaned out, and it must be so clear that people could see themselves reflected in it, and every kind of fish must be in it. The little earth-men went away and summoned all their kindred to help them, and in two hours it was done. Then they returned to her and said, 'We have done as thou hast commanded.' The King's daughter took the handkerchief and once more struck thrice on the ground with it, and said, 'Earth-workers, go home again.' Then they all went away.