There was once a King's son, who was no longer content to stay at home in his father's house, and as he had no fear of anything, he thought, 'I will go forth into the wide world, there the time will not seem long to me, and I shall see wonders enough.' So he took leave of his parents, and went forth, and on and on from morning till night, and whichever way his path led it was the same to him. It came to pass that he got to the house of a giant, and as he was so tired he sat down by the door and rested. And as he let his eyes roam here and there, he saw the giant's playthings lying in the yard. These were a couple of enormous balls, and nine-pins as tall as a man. After a while he had a fancy to set the nine-pins up and then rolled the balls at them, and screamed and cried out when the nine-pins fell, and had a merry time of it. The giant heard the noise, stretched his head out of the window, and saw a man who was not taller than other men, and yet played with his nine-pins. 'Little worm,' cried he, 'why art thou playing with my balls? Who gave thee strength to do it?' The King's son looked up, saw the giant, and said, 'Oh, thou blockhead, thou thinkest indeed that thou only hast strong arms, I can do everything I want to do.' The giant came down and watched the bowling with great admiration, and said, 'Child of man, if thou art one of that kind, go and bring me an apple of the tree of life.' 'What dost thou want with it?' said the King's son. 'I do not want the apple for myself,' answered the giant, 'but I have a betrothed bride who wishes for it. I have travelled far about the world and cannot find the tree.' 'I will soon find it,' said the King's son, 'and I do not know what is to prevent me from getting the apple down.' The giant said, 'Thou really believest it to be so easy! The garden in which the tree stands is surrounded by an iron railing, and in front of the railing lie wild beasts, each close to the other, and they keep watch and let no man go in.' 'They will be sure to let me in,' said the King's son. 'Yes, but even if thou dost get into the garden, and seest the apple hanging to the tree, it is still not thine; a ring hangs in front of it, through which any one who wants to reach the apple and break it off, must put his hand, and no one has yet had the luck to do it.' 'That luck will be mine,' said the King's son.