

	The third brother had apprenticed himself to a turner, and as that is skilled labour, he was the longest in learning. His brothers, however, told him in a letter how badly things had gone with them, and how the innkeeper had cheated them of their beautiful wishing-gifts on the last evening before they reached home. When the turner had served his time, and had to set out on his travels, as he had conducted himself so well, his master presented him with a sack and said, 'There is a cudgel in it.' 'I can put on the sack,' said he, 'and it may be of good service to me, but why should the cudgel be in it? It only makes it heavy.' 'I will tell thee why,' replied the master; 'if any one has done anything to injure thee, do but say, 'Out of the sack, Cudgel!' and the cudgel will leap forth among the people, and play such a dance on their backs that they will not be able to stir or move for a week, and it will not leave off until thou sayest, 'Into the sack, Cudgel!'' The apprentice thanked him, and put the sack on his back, and when any one came too near him, and wished to attack him, he said, 'Out of the sack, Cudgel!' and instantly the cudgel sprang out, and dusted the coat or jacket of one after the other on their backs, and never stopped until it had stripped it off them, and it was done so quickly, that before anyone was aware, it was already his own turn. In the evening the young turner reached the inn where his brothers had been cheated. He laid his sack on the table before him, and began to talk of all the wonderful things which he had seen in the world. 'Yes,' said he, 'people may easily find a table which will cover itself, a gold-ass, and things of that kind — extremely good things which I by no means despise—-but these are nothing in comparison with the treasure which I have won for myself, and am carrying about with me in my sack there.' The inn-keeper pricked up his ears, 'What in the world can that be?' thought he; 'the sack must be filled with nothing but jewels; I ought to get them cheap too, for all good things go in threes.' When it was time for sleep, the guest stretched himself on the bench, and laid his sack beneath him for a pillow. When the inn-keeper thought his guest was lying in a sound sleep, he went to him and pushed and pulled quite gently and carefully at the sack to see if he could possibly draw it away and lay another in its place. The turner had, however, been waiting for this for a long time, and now just as the inn-keeper was about to give a hearty tug, he cried, 'Out of the sack, Cudgel!' Instantly the little cudgel came forth, and fell on the inn-keeper and gave him a sound thrashing.