

	And it came to pass that as he was riding across a heath, he saw from afar something like a great heap of hay lying on the ground, and when he drew nearer, he could see that it was the stomach of a man, who had laid himself down there, but the stomach looked like a small mountain. When the fat man saw the traveller, he stood up and said, 'If you are in need of any one, take me into your service.' The prince answered, 'What can I do with such a great big man?' 'Oh,' said the Stout One, 'this is nothing, when I stretch myself out well, I am three thousand times fatter.' 'If that's the case,' said the prince, 'I can make use of thee, come with me.' So the Stout One followed the prince, and after a while they found another man who was lying on the ground with his ear laid to the turf. 'What art thou doing there?' asked the King's son. 'I am listening,' replied the man. 'What art thou listening to so attentively?' 'I am listening to what is just going on in the world, for nothing escapes my ears; I even hear the grass growing.' 'Tell me,' said the prince, 'what thou hearest at the court of the old Queen who has the beautiful daughter.' Then he answered, 'I hear the whizzing of the sword that is striking off a wooer's head.' The King's son said, 'I can make use of thee, come with me.' They went onwards, and then saw a pair of feet lying and part of a pair of legs, but could not see the rest of the body. When they had walked on for a great distance, they came to the body, and at last to the head also. 'Why,' said the prince, 'what a tall rascal thou art!' 'Oh,' replied the Tall One, 'that is nothing at all yet; when I really stretch out my limbs, I am three thousand times as tall, and taller than the highest mountain on earth. I will gladly enter your service, if you will take me.' 'Come with me,' said the prince, 'I can make use of thee.' They went onwards and found a man sitting by the road who had bound up his eyes. The prince said to him, 'Hast thou weak eyes, that thou canst not look at the light?' 'No,' replied the man, 'but I must not remove the bandage, for whatsoever I look at with my eyes, splits to pieces, my glance is so powerful. If you can use that, I shall be glad to serve you.' 'Come with me,' replied the King's son, 'I can make use of thee.' They journeyed onwards and found a man who was lying in the hot sunshine, trembling and shivering all over his body, so that not a limb was still. 'How canst thou shiver when the sun is shining so warm?' said the King's son. 'Alack,' replied the man, 'I am of quite a different nature. The hotter it is, the colder I am, and the frost pierces through all my bones; and the colder it is, the hotter I am. In the midst of ice, I cannot endure the heat, nor in the midst of fire, the cold.' 'Thou art a strange fellow,' said the prince, 'but if thou wilt enter my service, follow me.' They travelled onwards, and saw a man standing who made a long neck and looked about him, and could see over all the mountains. 'What art thou looking at so eagerly?' said the King's son. The man replied, 'I have such sharp eyes that I can see into every forest and field, and hill and valley, all over the world.' The prince said, 'Come with me if thou wilt, for I am still in want of such an one.'