

	The little tailor journeyed on and came to a great forest, and there he fell in with a band of robbers who had a design to steal the King's treasure. When they saw the little tailor, they thought, 'A little fellow like that can creep through a key-hole and serve as picklock to us.' 'Hollo,' cried one of them, 'thou giant Goliath, wilt thou go to the treasure-chamber with us? Thou canst slip thyself in and throw out the money.' Thumbling reflected a while, and at length he said, 'yes,' and went with them to the treasure-chamber. Then he looked at the doors above and below, to see if there was any crack in them. It was not long before he espied one which was broad enough to let him in. He was therefore about to get in at once, but one of the two sentries who stood before the door, observed him, and said to the other, 'What an ugly spider is creeping there; I will kill it.' 'Let the poor creature alone,' said the other; 'it has done thee no harm.' Then Thumbling got safely through the crevice into the treasure-chamber, opened the window beneath which the robbers were standing, and threw out to them one thaler after another. When the little tailor was in the full swing of his work, he heard the King coming to inspect his treasure-chamber, and crept hastily into a hiding-place. The King noticed that several solid thalers were missing, but could not conceive who could have stolen them, for locks and bolts were in good condition, and all seemed well guarded. Then he went away again, and said to the sentries, 'Be on the watch, some one is after the money.' When therefore Thumbling recommenced his labours, they heard the money moving, and a sound of klink, klink, klink. They ran swiftly in to seize the thief, but the little tailor, who heard them coming, was still swifter, and leapt into a corner and covered himself with a thaler, so that nothing could be seen of him, and at the same time he mocked the sentries and cried, 'Here am I!' The sentries ran thither, but as they got there, he had already hopped into another corner under a thaler, and was crying, 'Ho, ho, here am I!' The watchmen sprang there in haste, but Thumbling had long ago got into a third corner, and was crying, 'Ho, ho, here am I!' And thus he made fools of them, and drove them so long round about the treasure-chamber that they were weary and went away. Then by degrees he threw all the thalers out, dispatching the last with all his might, then hopped nimbly upon it, and flew down with it through the window. The robbers paid him great compliments. 'Thou art a valiant hero,' said they; 'wilt thou be our captain?'