

	Next morning the cattle-dealer came, and the woman had no need to say many words to him. When he had seen the cows and heard the price, he said, 'I am quite willing to give that, honestly speaking, they are worth it. I will take the beasts away with me at once.' He unfastened their chains and drove them out of the byre, but just as he was going out of the yard-door, the woman clutched him by the sleeve and said, 'You must give me the two hundred thalers now, or I cannot let the cows go.' 'True,' answered the man, 'but I have forgotten to buckle on my money-belt. Have no fear, however, you shall have security for my paying. I will take two cows with me and leave one, and then you will have a good pledge.' The woman saw the force of this, and let the man go away with the cows, and thought to herself, 'How pleased Hans will be when he finds how cleverly I have managed it!' The peasant came home on the third day as he had said he would, and at once inquired if the cows were sold? 'Yes, indeed, dear Hans,' answered the woman, 'and as you said, for two hundred thalers. They are scarcely worth so much, but the man took them without making any objection.' 'Where is the money?' asked the peasant. 'Oh, I have not got the money,' replied the woman; 'he had happened to forget his money-belt, but he will soon bring it, and he left good security behind him.' 'What kind of security?' asked the man. 'One of the three cows, which he shall not have until he has paid for the other two. I have managed very cunningly, for I have kept the smallest, which eats the least.' The man was enraged and lifted up his stick, and was just going to give her the beating he had promised her. Suddenly he let the stick fail and said, 'You are the stupidest goose that ever waddled on God's earth, but I am sorry for you. I will go out into the highways and wait for three days to see if I find anyone who is still stupider than you. If I succeed in doing so, you shall go scot-free, but if I do not find him, you shall receive your well-deserved reward without any discount.'