

	He went out into the great highways, sat down on a stone, and waited for what would happen. Then he saw a peasant's waggon coming towards him, and a woman was standing upright in the middle of it, instead of sitting on the bundle of straw which was lying beside her, or walking near the oxen and leading them. The man thought to himself, 'That is certainly one of the kind I am in search of,' and jumped up and ran backwards and forwards in front of the waggon like one who is not very wise. 'What do you want, my friend?' said the woman to him; 'I don't know you, where do you come from?' 'I have fallen down from heaven,' replied the man, 'and don't know how to get back again, couldn't you drive me up?' 'No,' said the woman, 'I don't know the way, but if you come from heaven you can surely tell me how my husband, who has been there these three years is. You must have seen him?' 'Oh, yes, I have seen him, but all men can't get on well. He keeps sheep, and the sheep give him a great deal to do. They run up the mountains and lose their way in the wilderness, and he has to run after them and drive them together again. His clothes are all torn to pieces too, and will soon fall off his body. There is no tailor there, for Saint Peter won't let any of them in, as you know by the story.' 'Who would have thought it?' cried the woman, 'I tell you what, I will fetch his Sunday coat which is still hanging at home in the cupboard, he can wear that and look respectable. You will be so kind as to take it with you.' 'That won't do very well,' answered the peasant; 'people are not allowed to take clothes into Heaven, they are taken away from one at the gate.' 'Then hark you,' said the woman, 'I sold my fine wheat yesterday and got a good lot of money for it, I will send that to him. If you hide the purse in your pocket, no one will know that you have it.' 'If you can't manage it any other way,' said the peasant, 'I will do you that favor.' 'Just sit still where you are,' said she, 'and I will drive home and fetch the purse, I shall soon be back again. I do not sit down on the bundle of straw, but stand up in the waggon, because it makes it lighter for the cattle.' She drove her oxen away, and the peasant thought, 'That woman has a perfect talent for folly, if she really brings the money, my wife may think herself fortunate, for she will get no beating.' It was not long before she came in a great hurry with the money, and with her own hands put it in his pocket. Before she went away, she thanked him again a thousand times for his courtesy.