A short story published in 1860 considered ? Louisa May Alcott bestows a truly amusing and thoroughly modern retelling of The Brothers Grimm's Cinderella. Little Women is certainly Louisa May Alcott's best known book, but don't miss her refreshing version of this classic fairy tale, A Modern Cinderella. Alcott pokes fun throughout, describing a  as  What modern gal doesn't appreciate that those old, worn out shoes are dependable and will take you far--forget impractical glass slipper or stilettos! Decide which version you prefer.\n\n\tA MODERN CINDERELLA OR, THE LITTLE OLD SHOE\n\n\tHOW IT WAS LOST Among green New England hills stood an ancient house, many-gabled, mossy-roofed, and quaintly built, but picturesque and pleasant to the eye; for a brook ran babbling through the orchard that encompassed it about, a garden-plat stretched upward to the whispering birches on the slope, and patriarchal elms stood sentinel upon the lawn, as they had stood almost a century ago, when the Revolution rolled that way and found them young. One summer morning, when the air was full of country sounds, of mowers in the meadow, black-birds by the brook, and the low of kine upon the hill-side, the old house wore its cheeriest aspect, and a certain humble history began.   And a head, brown-locked, blue-eyed, soft-featured, looked in at the open door in answer to the call. Just bring me the third volume of 'Wilhelm Meister,' there's a dear. It's hardly worth while to rouse such a restless ghost as I, when I'm once fairly laid.' As she spoke, Di pulled up her black braids, thumped the pillow of the couch where she was lying, and with eager eyes went down the last page of her book.   replied the girl, coming back with the third volume for the literary cormorant, who took it with a nod, still too content upon the  to remember the failings of a certain plain sinner.  And Laura, the cool blonde, disposed the folds of her white gown more gracefully about her, and touched up the eyebrow of the Minerva she was drawing.    The old man went away into his imaginary paradise, and Nan into that domestic purgatory on a summer day, -- the kitchen. There were vines about the windows, sunshine on the floor,and order everywhere; but it was haunted by a cooking-stove, that family altar whence such varied incense rises to appease the appetite of household gods, before which such dire incantations are pronounced to ease the wrath and woe of the priestess of the fire, and about which often linger saddest memories of wasted temper, time, and toil. Nan was tired, having risen with the birds,--hurried, having many cares those happy little housewives never know,--and disappointed in a hope that hourly She was too young to make the anxious lines upon her forehead seem at home there, too patient to be burdened with the labor others should have shared, too light of heart to be pent up when earth and sky were keeping a blithe holiday. But she was one of that meek sisterhood who, thinking humbly of themselves, believe they are honored by being spent in the service of less conscientious souls, whose careless thanks seem quite reward enough. To and fro she went, silent and diligent, giving the grace of willingness to every humble or distasteful task the day had brought her; but some malignant sprite seemed to have taken possession of her kingdom, for rebellion broke out everywhere.The kettles would boil over most obstreperously,--the mutton refused to cook with the meek alacrity to be expected from the nature of a sheep,--the stove, with unnecessary warmth of temper, would glow like a fiery furnace,--the irons would scorch,--the linens would dry,--and spirits would fail, though patience never. Nan tugged on, growing hotter and wearier,more hurried and more hopeless, till at last the crisis came; for in one fell moment she tore her gown, burnt her hand, and smudged the collar she was preparing to finish in the most unexceptionable style. Then, if she had been a nervous woman, she would have scolded; being a gentle girl, she only   The voice came from the porch, and, with her hope fulfilled, Nan looked up to greet John Lord, the house-friend, who stood there with a basket on his arm; and as she saw his honest eyes, kind lips, and helpful hands, the girl thought this plain young man the comeliest, most welcome sight she had beheld that day.  she said, looking up like a grateful child, as she led him in.  As he spoke, John gave his own gift in his mother's name, and bestowed himself in the wide window-seat, where morning-glories nodded at him,and the old butternut sent pleasant shadows dancing to and fro. His advent, like that of Orpheus in hades,seemed to soothe all unpropitious powers with a sudden spell. The Fire began to slacken. the kettles began to lull, the meat began to cook, the irons began to cool, the clothes began to be have, the spirits began to rise, and the collar was finished off with most triumphant success. John watched the change, and, though a lord of creation,abased himself to take compassion on the weaker vessel, and was seized with a great desire to lighten the homely tasks that tried her strength of body and soul. He took a comprehensive glance about the room; then, extracting a dish from he closet, proceeded to imbrue his hands in the strawberries' blood.  As she spole, Nan offered the polished absurdity for inspection with innocent pride.  sighed John,--adding, argumentatively,  Looking at the matter in a charitable light,Nan consented, and went cheerfully on with her work, wondering how she could have thought ironing an infliction, and been so ungrateful for the blessings of her lot.  asked John, looking vainly for the functionary who usually pervaded that region like a domestic police-woman, a terror to cats, dogs, and men.  And Nan laughed so blithely, it was a pleasure to hear her.  asked John, seized with a most unmasculine curiosity all at once.  And Nan rubbed away with sisterly zeal at Di's forlorn hose and inky pocket-handkerchiefs.  proceeded the inquisitor.  And Nan bestirred herself to prepare the dishWherewith her picturesque sister desired to prolong her artistic existence.  John asked again,checking off each answer with a nod and a little frown.  John glanced from the steamy kitchen to the shadowy path, and answered with a sudden assumption of immense industry,-- 'I couldn't possibly go, Nan,--I've so much on my hands. You'll have to do it yourself. 'Mr.Robert of Lincoln' has something for your private ear; and the lane is so cool, it will do one's heart good to see you in it. Give my regards to your father, and, in the words of 'Little Mabel's' mother, with slight variation,-- 'Tell the dear old bodyThis day I cannot run, For the pots are boiling over And the mutton isn't done.''  said Nan.  And, with melodramatic sternness, John extinguished her in his broad-brimmed hat, and offered the glass like a poisoned goblet. Nan took it, and went smiling away. But the lane might have been the Desert of Sahara, for all she knew of it; and she would have passed her father as unconcernedly as if he had been an apple-tree, had he not called out,--  She obeyed the venerable highwayman, and followed him to and fro, listening to his plans and directions with a mute attention that quite won his heart.  To all of which remarks Nan gave her assent;the hop-pole took the likeness of a tall figure she had seen in the porch, the sage-bed, curiously enough, suggested a strawberry ditto,the lettuce vividly reminded her of certain vegetable productions a basket had brought, and the bobolink only sung in his cheeriest voice,  She found John--he having made a free-mason of himself, by assuming her little apron--meditating over the partially spread table, lost in a maze at its desolate appearance; one half its proper paraphernalia having been forgotten, and the other half put on awry. Nan laughed till the tears ran over her cheeks, and John was gratified at the efficacy of his treatment; for her face had brought a whole harvest of sunshine from the garden, and all her cares seemed to have been lost in the windings of the lane.  cried Di, appearing,book in hand.   And John dropped a curtsy with his limited apron. Di looked ruffled, for the merry words were a covert reproach; and with her usual energy of manner and freedom of speech she tossed out of the window, exclaiming, irefully.--  John and Nan fled like chaff before the wind,while Di, full of remorseful zeal, charged at the kettles, and wrenched off the potatoes' jackets,as if she were revengefully pulling her own hair.Laura had a vague intention of going to assist; but, getting lost among the lights and shadows of Minerva's helmet, forgot to appear till dinner had been evoked from chaos and peace was restored. At three o'clock, Di performed the coronation ceremony with her father's best hat; Laura retied his old-fashioned neckcloth, and arranged his white locks with an eye to saintly effect; Nan appeared with a beautifully written sermon, and suspicious ink-stains on the fingers that slipped it into his pocket; John attached himself to the bag; and the patriarch was escorted to the door of his tent with the triumphal procession which usually attended his out-goings and in-comings. Having kissed the female portion of his tribe, he ascended the venerable chariot, which received him with audible lamentation, as its rheumatic joints swayed to and fro.  But Solon merely cocked one ear, and remained a fixed fact; for long experience had induced the philosophic beast to take for his motto the Yankee maxim, 'Be sure you're right, then go ahead! He knew things were not right; therefore he did not go ahead.  But Solon only cocked the other ear, gently agitated his mortified tail, as premonitory symptoms of departure, and never stirred a hoof, being well aware that it always took three to make a   At this juncture Solon suddenly went off, like  in a sort of walking swoon, apparently deaf and blind to all mundane matters, except the refreshments awaiting him ten miles away; and the benign old pastor disappeared, humming  to the creaking accompaniment of the bulgy chaise. Laura retired to take her siesta; Nan made a small carbon arrow of herself by sharpening her sister's crayons, and Di, as a sort of penance for past sins, tried her patience over a piece of knitting, in which she soon originated a somewhat remarkable pattern, by dropping every third stitch, and seaming ad libitum. If John bad been a gentlemanly creature, with refined tastes, he would have elevated his feet and made a nuisance of himself by indulging in a but being only an uncultivated youth, with a rustic regard for pure air and womankind in general, he kept his head uppermost, and talked like a man, instead of smoking like a chimney.  he said, looking up from a thoughtful examination of the hard-working little citizens of the Industrial Community settled in Nan's work-basket. answered truthful Nan, whittling away in a sadly wasteful manner, as her thoughts flew back to the happy times when a little lad rode a little lass in a big wheelbarrow, and never spilt his load,--when two brown heads bobbed daily side by side to school, and the favorite play was  with Di for a somewhat peckish robin to cover the small martyrs with any vegetable substance that lay at hand. Nan sighed, as she thought of these things, and John regarded the battered thimble on his finger-tip with increased benignity of aspect as he heard the sound.  demanded Di, pausing after an exciting  and looking almost as much exhausted as if it had been a veritable pugilistic encounter.  The color sprang up into the young man's cheek, his eyes looked out with a sudden shine,and his hand seemed involuntarily to close, as if he saw and seized some invisible delight.  asked Nan, with a wondering glance. and John's strong hand unclosed, as if the desired good were not to be his yet. Di looked at him, with a knitting-needle stuck into her hair, saying, like a sarcastic unicorn,--  Not a whit disturbed, John smiled, as if at some mighty pleasant fancy of his own, as he replied,-- 'Thank you, Di; and as a further proof of the utter depravity of my nature, let me tell you thatI have the greatest possible respect for those articles of ironmongery. Some of the happiest hours of my life have been spent in their society; some of my pleasantest associations are connected with them;some of my best lessons have come to me among them; and when my fortune is made, I intend to show my gratitude by taking three flat-irons rampant for my coat of arms. Nan laughed merrily, as she looked at the burns on her hand; but Di elevated the most prominent feature of her brown countenance, and sighed despondingly,--  And Di wrestled with her knitting as if it were Fate, and she were paying off the grudge she owed it. John leaned toward her, saying, with a look that made his plain face handsome,--  Di winked violently, and seamed five times in perfect silence; but quiet Nan had the gift of knowing when to speak, and by a timely word saved her sister from a thunder-shower and her stocking from destruction. 'John, have you seen Philip since you wrote about your last meeting with him? The question was for John, but the soothing tone was for Di, who gratefully accepted it, and perked up again with speed. answered John, plunging into the subject at once.   cried a fervent voice; and, looking up, they saw the cold, listless Laura transformed into a tender girl, all aglow with love and longing, as she dropped her mask,and showed a living countenance eloquent with the first passion and softened by the first grief of her life. John rose involuntarily in the presence of an innocent nature whose sorrow needed no interpreter to him. The girl read sympathy in his brotherly regard, and found comfort in the friendly voice that asked, half playfully, half seriously,--  With a gesture full of energy, Laura tore herMinerva from top to bottom, while two great tears rolled down the cheeks grown wan with hope deferred.  Nan went to her and held her fast, leaving the prints of two loving but grimy hands upon her shoulders; Di looked on approvingly, for, though stony-hearted regarding the cause, she fully appreciated the effect; and John, turning to the window, received the commendations of a robin swaying on an elm-bough with sunshine on its ruddy breast. The clock struck five, and John declared that he must go; for, being an old-fashioned soul, he fancied that his mother had a better right to his last hour than any younger woman in the land,--always remembering that  Nan ran away to wash her hands, and came back with the appearance of one who had washed her face also: and so she had; but there was a difference in the water.  With which preface the young man kissed his former play fellows as heartily as the boy had been wont to do, when stern parents banished him to distant schools, and three little maids bemoaned his fate. But times were changed now; for Di grew alarmingly rigid during the ceremony; Laura received the salute like a graceful queen; and Nan returned it with heart and eyes and tender lips, making such an improvement on the childish fashion of the thing that John was moved to support his paternal character by softly echoing her father's words,-- Then they all streamed after him along the garden-path, with the endless messages and warnings girls are so prone to give; and the young man,with a great softness at his heart, went away, as many another John has gone, feeling better for the companionship of innocent maidenhood, and stronger to wrestle with temptation, to wait and hope and work. cried Di, with one of her eccentric inspirations. Nan tore off her shoe, and threw it far along the dusty road, with a sudden longing to become that auspicious article of apparel, that the omen might not fail. Looking backward from the hill-top, John answered the meek shout cheerily, and took in the group with a lingering glance: Laura in the shadow of the elms, Di perched on the fence, and Nan leaning far over the gate with her hand above her eyes and the sunshine touching her brown hair with gold. He waved his hat and turned away;but the music seemed to die out of the blackbird's song, and in all the summer landscape his eyes saw nothing but the little figure at the gate.  cried Di, tumbling off her perch in sudden alarm. Three agitated young ladies, with flying draperies and countenances of mingled mirth and dismay,might have been seen precipitating themselves into a respectable mansion with unbecoming haste; but the squirrels were the only witnesses of this  and, being used to ground-and-lofty tumbling, didn't mind it. When the pedestrians passed, the door was decorously closed, and no one visible but a young man, who snatched something out of the road, and marched away again, whistling with more vigor of tone than accuracy of tune,  HOW IT WAS FOUND. Summer ripened into autumn, and something fairer than  Her nature was the counterpart of the hill-side grove, where as a child she had read her fairytales, and now as a woman turned the first pages of a more wondrous legend still. Lifted above the many-gabled roof, yet not cut off from the echo of human speech, the little grove seemed a green sanctuary, fringed about with violets, and full of summer melody and bloom. Gentle creatures haunted it, and there was none to make afraid; wood-pigeons cooed and crickets chirped their shrill roundelays, anemones and lady-ferns looked up from the moss that kissed the wanderer's feet. Warm airs were all afloat, full of vernalodors for the grateful sense, silvery birches shimmered like spirits of the wood, larches gave their green tassels to the wind, and pines made airy music sweet and solemn, as they stood looking heavenward through veils of summer sunshine or shrouds of wintry snow. Nan never felt alone now in this charmed wood;for when she came into its precincts, once so full of solitude, all things seemed to wear one shape, familiar eyes looked at her from the violets in the grass, familiar words sounded in the whisper of the leaves, grew conscious that an unseen influence filled the air with new delights, and touched earth and sky with a beauty never seen before. Slowly these Mayflowers budded in her maiden heart, rosily they bloomed and silently they waited till some lover of such lowly herbs should catch their fresh aroma, should brush away the fallen leaves, and lift them to the sun. Though the eldest of the three, she had long been overtopped by the more aspiring maids. But though she meekly yielded the reins of government,whenever they chose to drive, they were soon restored to her again; for Di fell into literature, andLaura into love. Thus engrossed, these two forgot many duties which even blue stockings and inamoratos are expected to perform, and slowly all the homely humdrum cares that housewives know became Nan's daily life, and she accepted it without a thought of discontent. Noiseless and cheerful as the sunshine, she went to and fro, doing the tasks that mothers do, but without a mother's sweet reward, holding fast the numberless slight threads that bind a household tenderly together, and making each day a beautiful success. Di, being tired of running, riding, climbing, and boating, decided at last to let her body rest and put her equally active mind through what classical collegians term  Having undertaken to read and know everything, she devoted herself to the task with great energy, going from Sue to Swedenborg with perfect impartiality,and having different authors as children have sundry distempers, being fractious while they lasted,but all the better for them when once over. Carlyle appeared like scarlet-fever, and raged violently for a time; for, being anything but a  Di became prophetic with Mahomet,belligerent with Cromwell, and made the French Revolution a veritable Reign of Terror to her family. Goethe and Schiller alternated like fever and ague; Mephistopheles became her hero, Joan of Arc her model, and she turned her black eyes red over Egmont and Wallenstein. A mild attack of Emerson followed, during which she was lost in a fog, and her sisters rejoiced inwardly when she emerged informing them that.  Poor Di was floundering slowly to her proper place; but she splashed up a good deal of foam by getting out of her depth, and rather exhausted herself by trying to drink the ocean dry. Laura, after the  that often comes to girls of seventeen, woke up to find that youth and love were no match for age and common sense. Philip had been flying about the world like a thistle-down for five-and-twenty years,generous-hearted. frank, and kind, but with never an idea of the serious side of life in his handsome head. Great, therefore, were the wrath and dismay of the enamored thistle-down, when the father of his love mildly objected to seeing her begin the world in a balloon with a very tender but very inexperienced aeronaut for a guide.  The lovers listened, owned the truth of the old man's words, bewailed their fate, and yielded,--Laura for love of her father, Philip for love of her.He went away to build a firm foundation for his castle in the air, and Laura retired into an invisible convent, where she cast off the world, and regarded her sympathizing sisters through a grate of superior knowledge and unsharable grief. Like a devout nun, she worshipped  and firmly believed in his miraculous powers. She fancied that her woes set her a part from common cares, and slowly fell into a dreamy state, professing no interest in any mundane matter, but the art that first attracted Philip. Crayons, bread-crusts,and gray paper became glorified in Laura's eyes; and her one pleasure was to sit pale and still before her easel, day after day, filling her portfolios with the faces he had once admired. Her sisters observed that every Bacchus, Piping Faun, or DyingGladiator bore some likeness to a comely countenance that heathen god or hero never owned;and seeing this, they privately rejoiced that she had found such solace for her grief. Mrs. Lord's keen eye had read a certain newly written page in her son's heart,--his first chapter of that romance, begun in paradise, whose interest never flags, whose beauty never fades, whose end can never come till Love lies dead. With womanly skill she divined the secret, with motherly discretion she counseled patience, and her son accepted her advice, feeling that, like many a healthful herb, its worth lay in its bitterness.  John smiled at the motherly pride of her words,but answered with a wistful look.   The young man's eye kindled, and in his heart there rose a better chivalry, a truer valor, than any of Di's knights had ever known.  was all he said; but she was satisfied, for John seldom tried in vain.  cried Nan, one mild October night,as she put the last touches to certain airy raiment fashioned by her own skillful hands, and then fell back to survey the grand effect.  and Nan, with her own locks fallen on her shoulders, for want of sundry combs promoted to her sisters' heads and her dress in unwonted disorder, for lack of the many pins extracted in exciting crises of the toilet, hovered like an affectionate bee about two very full-blown flowers.  said Nan, beaming with sisterly admiration.  As Di spoke, both the fashion-plates looked affectionately at the gray-gowned figure; but, being works of art, they were obliged to nip their feelings in the bud, and reserve their caresses till they returned to common life.  added Di, as she bore down upon the door like a man-of-war under full sail.  sighed Laura, with a wistful look. Whereupon Nan persuaded herself that her strong inclination to sit down was owing to want of exercise, and the heaviness of her eyelids a freak of imagination; so, speedily smoothing her ruffled plumage, she ran down to tell her father of the new arrangement.  Nan led the way, and the two pyramids revolved before him with the rapidity of lay-figures,much to the good man's edification: for with his fatherly pleasure there was mingled much mild wonderment at the amplitude of array. 'Yes, I see my geese are really swans, though there is such a cloud between us that I feel a long way off, and hardly know them. But this little daughter is always available, always my 'cricket on the hearth.' As he spoke, her father drew Nan closer, kissed her tranquil face, and smiled content.  In her enthusiasm, Sally gambolled about the girls, flourishing her milk-pan like a modernMiriam about to sound her timbrel for excess of joy. Laughing merrily, the two Mont Blancs bestowed themselves in the family ark, Nan hopped up beside Patrick, and Solon, roused from his lawful slumbers, morosely trundled them away.But, looking backward with a last  Nan saw her father still standing at the door with smiling countenance, and the moonlight falling like a benediction on his silver hair.  Mrs. Lord said, when her guest rose to depart, after an hour of pleasant chat. But Nan never got the gift; for, to her great dismay, her hostess dropped the basket with a crash, and flew across the room to meet a tall shape pausing in the shadow of the door. There was no need to ask who the new-comer was; for,even in his mother's arms, John looked over her shoulder with an eager nod to Nan, who stood among the ruins with never a sign of weariness in her face, nor the memory of a care at her heart.--for they all went out when John came in. 'Now tell us how and why and when you came.Take off your coat, my dear! And here are the old slippers. Why didn't you let us know you were coming so soon? How have you been?and what makes you so late to-night? Betsey,you needn't put on your bonnet. And--oh, my dear boy, have you been to supper yet? Mrs. Lord was a quiet soul, and her flood of questions was purred softly in her son's ear; for,being a woman, she must talk, and, being a mother,must pet the one delight of her life, and make a little festival when the lord of the manor came home. A whole drove of fatted calves were metaphorically killed, and a banquet appeared with speed. John was not one of those romantic heroes who can go through three volumes of hair-breadth escapes without the faintest hint of that blessed institution, dinner; therefore, like he partook, copiously of everything.'while the two women beamed over each mouthful with an interest that enhanced its flavor, and urged upon him cold meat and cheese, pickles and pie, as if dyspepsia and nightmare were among the lost arts. Then he opened his budget of news and fed them.  John paused, and looked musingly at the matronly tea-pot, as if he saw a wondrous future inits shine. Nan twinkled off the drops that rose at the thought of Laura's joy, and said, with grateful warmth,-- 'You say nothing of your own share in the making of that happiness, John; but we know it,for Philip has told Laura in his letters all that you have been to him, and I am sure there was other eloquence beside his own before father granted all you say he has. Oh, John, I thank you very much for this! Mrs. Lord beamed a whole midsummer of delight upon her son, as she saw the pleasure these words gave him, though he answered simply,-- 'I only tried to be a brother to him, Nan; for he has been most kind to me. Yes, I said my little say to-night, and gave my testimony in behalf of the prisoner at the bar; a most merciful judge pronounced his sentence, and he rushed straight to Mrs. Leigh's to tell Laura the blissful news.Just imagine the scene when he appears, and howDi will open her wicked eyes and enjoy the spectacle of the disheveled lover, the bride-elect's tears,the stir, and the romance of the thing. She'll cry over it to-night, and caricature it to-morrow. And John led the laugh at the picture he had conjured up, to turn the thoughts of Di's dangerous sister from himself. At ten Nan retired into the depths of her old bonnet with a far different face from the one she brought out of it, and John, resuming his hat,mounted guard.  And in Mrs. Lord's voice there was a warning tone that her son interpreted aright.  And he kept his word; for though Philip's happiness floated temptingly before him, and the little figure at his side had never seemed so dear, he ignored the bland winds, the tender night, and seta seal upon his lips, thinking manfully within himself.  asked Nan, as that functionary appeared, blinking owlishly, but utterly repudiating the idea of sleep.  asked Sally, as irreverently as if her master were a bag of meal.  And slowly the two paced down the leaf-strewn walk. Fields of yellow grain were waving on the hill-side, and sere corn blades rustled in the wind, from the orchard came the scent of ripening fruit,and all the garden-plots lay ready to yield up their humble offerings to their master's hand. But in the silence of the night a greater Reaper had passed by, gathering in the harvest of a righteous life, and leaving only tender memories for the gleaners who had come so late. The old man sat in the shadow of the tree his own hands planted; its fruit boughs shone ruddily, and its leaves still whispered the low lullaby that hushed him to his rest.  As she spoke, Nan lifted up the head bent down upon his breast, and kissed his pallid cheek.   For a moment the shadows flickered over three white faces and the silence deepened solemnly. Then John reverently bore the pale shape in, and Nan dropped down beside it, saying, with a rain of grateful tears,--  For an hour steps went to and fro about her, many voices whispered near her, and skillful hands touched the beloved clay she held so fast; but one by one the busy feet passed out, one by one the voices died away, and human skill proved vain. Then Mrs. Lord drew the orphan to the shelter of her arms, soothing her with the mute solace of that motherly embrace. The happy call re-echoed through the house,and Nan sprang up as if her time for grief were past.  But there was no need for her to speak; other lips had spared her the hard task. For, as she stirred to meet them, a sharp cry rent the air, steps rang upon the stairs, and two wild-eyed creatures came into the hush of that familiar room, for the first time meeting with no welcome from their father's voice. With one impulse, Di and Laura fled to Nan.and the sisters clung together in a silent embrace,more eloquent than words. John took his mother by the hand, and led her from the room,closing the door upon the sacredness of grief.  Nan said this, as her friend parted from her a week later, after the saddest holiday he had ever known.  he asked,watching the patient eyes that smiled when others would have wept.  John nodded wisely, as he listened, and went away prophesying within himself,--  Nan's plan was carried into effect. Slowly the divided waters closed again, and the three fell back into their old life. But the touch of sorrow drew them closer; and, though invisible, a beloved presence still moved among them, a familiar voice still spoke to them in the silence of their softened hearts. Thus the soil was made ready, and in the depth of winter the good seed was sown, was watered with many tears, and soon sprang up green with a promise of a harvest for their after years. Di and Laura consoled themselves with their favorite employments, unconscious that Nan was growing paler, thinner, and more silent, as the weeks went by, till one day she dropped quietly before them, and it suddenly became manifest that she was utterly worn out with many cares and the secret suffering of a tender heart bereft of the paternal love which had been its strength and stay.  she said cheerily, as she looked into the anxious faces bending over her. But the weariness was of many months' growth,and it was weeks before that  came. Laura installed herself as nurse, and her devotion was repaid four-fold; for, sitting at her sister's bedside, she learned a finer art than that she had left. Her eye grew clear to see the beauty of a self-denying life, and in the depths of Nan's meek nature she found the strong, sweet virtues that made her what she was. Then remembering that these womanly attributes were a bride's best dowry, Laura gave herself to their attainment, that she might become to another household the blessing Nan had been to her own; and turning from the worship of the goddess Beauty, she gave her hand to that humbler and more human teacher, Duty,--learning her lessons with a willing heart,for Philip's sake. Di corked her ink stand, locked her bookcase,and went at housework as if it were a five-barred gate; of course she missed the leap, but scrambled bravely through, and appeared much sobered by the exercise. Sally had departed to sit under a vine and fig-tree of her own, so Di had undisputed sway; but if dish-pans and dusters had tongues,direful would have been the history of that crusade against frost and fire, indolence and inexperience.But they were dumb, and Di scorned to complain,though her struggles were pathetic to behold, and her sisters went through a series of messes equal to a course of  peppery tarts. Reality turned Romance out of doors; for, unlike her favorite heroines in satin and tears, or helmet and shield, Di met her fate in a big checked apron and dust-cap, wonderful to see; yet she wielded her broom as stoutly as  shouldered her gun, and marched to her daily martyrdom in the kitchen with as heroic a heart as the took to her stake. Mind won the victory over matter in the end,and Di was better all her days for the tribulations and the triumphs of that time; for she drowned her idle fancies in her wash-tub, made burnt-offerings of selfishness and pride, and learned the worth of self-denial, as she sang with happy voice among the pots and kettles of her conquered realm. Nan thought of John, and in the stillness of her sleepless nights prayed Heaven to keep him safe,and make her worthy to receive and strong enough to bear the blessedness or pain of love. Snow fell without, and keen winds how led among the leafless elms, but were blooming beautifully in the sunshine of sincere endeavor, and this dreariest season proved the most fruitful of the year; for love taught Laura,labor chastened Di, and patience fitted Nan for the blessing of her life. Nature, that stillest, yet most diligent of housewives,began at last that  which she makes so pleasant that none find the heart to grumble as they do when other matrons set their premises a-dust. Her hand-maids, wind and rain and sun, swept, washed, and garnished busily, green carpets were unrolled, apple-boughs were hung with draperies of bloom, and dandelions, pet nurslings of the year, came out to play upon the sward. From the South returned that opera troupe whose manager is never in despair, whose tenor never sulks, whose prima donna never fails, and in the orchard bona fide matinees were held, to which buttercups and clovers crowded in their prettiest spring hats, and verdant young blades twinkled their dewy lorgnettes, as they bowed and made way for the floral belles. May was bidding June good-morrow, and the roses were just dreaming that it was almost time to wake, when John came again into the quiet room which now seemed the Eden that contained hisEve. Of course there was a jubilee; but something seemed to have befallen the whole group, for never had they appeared in such odd frames of mind. John was restless, and wore an excited look, most unlike his usual serenity of aspect. Nan the cheerful had fallen into a well of silence and was not to be extracted by anyHydraulic power, though she smiled like the June sky over her head. Di's peculiarities were out in full force, and she looked as if she would go off like a torpedo at a touch; but through all her moods there was a half-triumphant, half-remorseful expression in the glance she fixed on John. AndLaura, once so silent, now sang like a blackbird, as she flitted to and fro; but her fitful song was always,  John felt that there had come a change upon the three, and silently divined whose unconscious influence had wrought the miracle. The embargo was off his tongue, and he was in a fever to ask that question which brings a flutter to the stoutest heart; but though the  had come, the  had not. So, by way of steadying his nerves, he paced the room, pausing often to take notes of his companions, and each pause seemed to increase his wonder and content. He looked at Nan. She was in her usual place,the rigid little chair she loved, because it once was large enough to hold a curly-headed playmate and herself. The old work-basket was at her side, and the battered thimble busily at work; but her lips wore a smile they had never worn be-fore, the color of the unblown roses touched her cheek, and her downcast eyes were full of light. He looked at Di. The inevitable book was on her knee, but its leaves were uncut; the strong-minded knob of hair still asserted its supremacy aloft upon her head, and the triangular jacket still adorned her shoulders in defiance of all fashions,past, present, or to come; but the expression of her brown countenance had grown softer, her tongue had found a curb, and in her hand lay a card with inscribed thereon, which she regarded with never a scornful word for the Co.' He looked at Laura. She was before her easel as of old; but the pale nun had given place to a blooming girl, who sang at her work, which was no prim Pallas, but a Clytie turning her human face to meet the sun.  He stirred as if Di's voice had disturbed his fancy at some pleasant pastime, but answered withhis usual sincerity,--   said Di; and her  was a most impressive monosyllable.  She paused a moment, then went on with softened voice and earnest mien:--  Laura echoed Di's last words; for, with eyes as full of tenderness, she looked down upon the sister she had lately learned to know, saying,warmly,--   cried Nan, with happy wonderment, as the tall heads, black and golden, bent to meet the lowly brown one, and her sisters' mute lips answered her. Then Laura looked up, saying, playfully,--   cried Di, pointing to John; and then her secret went off like a rocket; for, with her old impetuosity, she said,--  With tragic countenance, Di rushed across the room, threw both arms about the astonished young man's neck and dropped an energetic kiss upon his cheek. There was a momentary silence; for Di finally illustrated her strong-minded theories by crying like the weakest of her sex. Laura, with  still tried to draw,but broke her pet crayon, and endowed her Clytie with a supplementary orb, owing to the dimness of her own. And Nan sat with drooping eyes, that shone upon her work, thinking with tender pride,--They know him now, and love him for his generous heart.' Di spoke first, rallying to her colors, though a little daunted by her loss of self-control.  If Di had Proposed to translate the Koran, or build a new Saint Paul's, there would have been many chances of success; for, once moved, her will, like a battering-ram, would knock down the obstacles her wits could not surmount. John believed in her most heartily, and showed it, as he answered, looking into her resolute face,--  But proud Di would not let him add to her obligation,even by returning her impetuous salute;she slipped away, and, shaking off the last drops,answered with a curious mixture of old freedom and new respect,--   As she spoke, John's eye kindled, and, turning,he looked down at Nan, who sat diligently ornamenting with microscopic stitches a great patch going on, the wrong side out.  said Di, laughing, as she thought of the many times they had played it together years ago. A sudden movement stirred John's frame, a sudden purpose shone in his countenance, and a sudden change befell his voice, as he said, producing from some hiding-place a little worn out shoe,--  Di's black eyes opened wide, as they fell on the familiar object; then her romance-loving nature saw the whole plot of that drama which needs but two to act it. A great delight flushed up into her face, as she promptly took her cue, saying--  And pouncing upon the dismayed artist, she swept her out and closed the door with a triumphant bang. John went to Nan, and, dropping on his knee as reverently as the herald of the fairy tale, he asked,still smiling, but with lips grown tremulous,--  But Nan only covered up her face, weeping happy tears, while all the weary work strayed down upon the floor, as if it knew her holiday had come. John drew the hidden face still closer, and while she listened to his eager words, Nan heard the beating of the strong man's heart, and knew it spoke the truth.  Then Nan, as simple in her love as in her life,laid her arms about his neck, her happy face against his own, and answered softly,--    