Once upon a time a severe plague raged among the animals. Manydied, and those who lived were so ill, that they cared forneither food nor drink, and dragged themselves about listlessly.No longer could a fat young hen tempt Master Fox to dinner, nor atender lamb rouse greedy Sir Wolf's appetite. At last the Lion decided to call a council. When all the animalswere gathered together he arose and said: "Dear friends, I believe the gods have sent this plague upon usas a punishment for our sins. Therefore, the most guilty one ofus must be offered in sacrifice. Perhaps we may thus obtainforgiveness and cure for all. "I will confess all my sins first. I admit that I have beenvery greedy and have devoured many sheep. They had done me noharm. I have eaten goats and bulls and stags. To tell the truth,I even ate up a shepherd now and then. "Now, if I am the most guilty, I am ready to be sacrificed. But Ithink it best that each one confess his sins as I have done. Thenwe can decide in all justice who is the most guilty." "Your majesty," said the Fox, "you are too good. Can it be acrime to eat sheep, such stupid mutton heads? No, no, yourmajesty. You have done them great honor by eating them up. "And so far as shepherds are concerned, we all know they belongto that puny race that pretends to be our masters." All the animals applauded the Fox loudly. Then, though the Tiger,the Bear, the Wolf, and all the savage beasts recited the mostwicked deeds, all were excused and made to appear very saint-likeand innocent. It was now the Ass's turn to confess. "I remember," he said guiltily, "that one day as I was passing afield belonging to some priests, I was so tempted by the tendergrass and my hunger, that I could not resist nibbling a bit ofit. I had no right to do it, I admit—" A great uproar among the beasts interrupted him. Here was theculprit who had brought misfortune on all of them! What ahorrible crime it was to eat grass that belonged to someone else!It was enough to hang anyone for, much more an Ass. Immediately they all fell upon him, the Wolf in the lead, andsoon had made an end to him, sacrificing him to the gods then andthere, and without the formality of an altar. The weak are made to suffer for the misdeeds of the powerful. 8.0 Add  The Animals And The Plague to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Ant And The DoveOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Animals And The Plague to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Ant And The DoveOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Ant And The DoveOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Ant And The Dove Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library