Once there was a miller who was poor, but who had a beautiful daughter. Now it happened that he had to go and speak to the King, and in order to make himself appear important he said to him,  The King said to the miller, \n\n\tAnd when the girl was brought to him he took her into a room which was quite full of straw, gave her a spinning-wheel and a reel, and said,  Thereupon he himself locked up the room, and left her in it alone. So there sat the poor miller's daughter, and for the life of her could not tell what to do; she had no idea how straw could be spun into gold, and she grew more and more miserable, until at last she began to weep.\n\n\tBut all at once the door opened, and in came a little man, and said,   answered the girl,   said the manikin,   said the girl. The little man took the necklace, seated himself in front of the wheel, and  three turns, and the reel was full; then he put another on, and whirr, whirr, whirr, three times round, and the second was full too. And so it went on until the morning, when all the straw was spun, and all the reels were full of gold. By daybreak the King was already there, and when he saw the gold he was astonished and delighted, but his heart became only more greedy. He had the miller's daughter taken into another room full of straw, which was much larger, and commanded her to spin that also in one night if she valued her life. The girl knew not how to help herself, and was crying, when the door again opened, and the little man appeared, and said,   answered the girl. The little man took the ring, again began to turn the wheel, and by morning had spun all the straw into glittering gold.\n\n\tThe King rejoiced beyond measure at the sight, but still he had not gold enough; and he had the miller's daughter taken into a still larger room full of straw, and said,   thought he, \n\n\tWhen the girl was alone the manikin came again for the third time, and said,   answered the girl.   thought the miller's daughter; and, not knowing how else to help herself in this strait, she promised the manikin what he wanted, and for that he once more span the straw into gold.\n\n\tAnd when the King came in the morning, and found all as he had wished, he took her in marriage, and the pretty miller's daughter became a Queen.\n\n\tA year after, she had a beautiful child, and she never gave a thought to the manikin. But suddenly he came into her room, and said,  The Queen was horror-struck, and offered the manikin all the riches of the kingdom if he would leave her the child. But the manikin said,  Then the Queen began to weep and cry, so that the manikin pitied her.  said he, \n\n\tSo the Queen thought the whole night of all the names that she had ever heard, and she sent a messenger over the country to inquire, far and wide, for any other names that there might be. When the manikin came the next day, she began with Caspar, Melchior, Balthazar, and said all the names she knew, one after another; but to every one the little man said,  On the second day she had inquiries made in the neighborhood as to the names of the people there, and she repeated to the manikin the most uncommon and curious.  but he always answered, \n\n\tOn the third day the messenger came back again, and said, To-day I bake, to-morrow brew, The next I'll have the young Queen's child. Ha! glad am I that no one knew That Rumpelstiltskin I am styled.Now, Mistress Queen, what is my name?Is your name Conrad?No.Is your name Harry?No.Perhaps your name is Rumpelstiltskin?The devil has told you that! the devil has told you that!' cried the little man, and in his anger he plunged his right foot so deep into the earth that his whole leg went in; and then in rage he pulled at his left leg so hard with both hands that he tore himself in two.\n\n\t8.4                