There was once a little Kid whose growing horns made him think hewas a grown-up Billy Goat and able to take care of himself. Soone evening when the flock started home from the pasture and hismother called, the Kid paid no heed and kept right on nibblingthe tender grass. A little later when he lifted his head, theflock was gone. He was all alone. The sun was sinking. Long shadows came creepingover the ground. A chilly little wind came creeping with themmaking scary noises in the grass. The Kid shivered as he thoughtof the terrible Wolf. Then he started wildly over the field,bleating for his mother. But not half-way, near a clump of trees,there was the Wolf! The Kid knew there was little hope for him. "Please, Mr. Wolf," he said trembling, "I know you are going toeat me. But first please pipe me a tune, for I want to dance andbe merry as long as I can." The Wolf liked the idea of a little music before eating, so hestruck up a merry tune and the Kid leaped and frisked gaily. Meanwhile, the flock was moving slowly homeward. In the stillevening air the Wolf's piping carried far. The Shepherd Dogspricked up their ears. They recognized the song the Wolf singsbefore a feast, and in a moment they were racing back to thepasture. The Wolf's song ended suddenly, and as he ran, with theDogs at his heels, he called himself a fool for turning piper toplease a Kid, when he should have stuck to his butcher's trade. Do not let anything turn you from your purpose 8.7 Add  The Wolf And The Kid to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The LambOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Wolf And The Kid to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The LambOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The LambOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The Lamb Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library