ONE day a peasant took his good hazel-stick out of the corner and said to his wife,   answered the woman,   said the man.  And having said that, the man went on his way.\n\n\tNext morning the cattle-dealer came, and the woman had no need to say many words to him. When he had seen the cows and heard the price, he said,  He unfastened their chains and drove them out of the byre, but just as he was going out of the yard-door, the woman clutched him by the sleeve and said,   answered the man,  The woman saw the force of this, and let the man go away with the cows, and thought to herself,  The peasant came home on the third day as he had said he would, and at once inquired if the cows were sold?  answered the woman,   asked the peasant.  replied the woman;   asked the man.  The man was enraged and lifted up his stick, and was just going to give her the beating he had promised her. Suddenly he let the stick fail and said, \n\n\tHe went out into the great highways, sat down on a stone, and waited for what would happen. Then he saw a peasant's waggon coming towards him, and a woman was standing upright in the middle of it, instead of sitting on the bundle of straw which was lying beside her, or walking near the oxen and leading them. The man thought to himself,  and jumped up and ran backwards and forwards in front of the waggon like one who is not very wise.  said the woman to him;   replied the man,   said the woman,    cried the woman,   answered the peasant;   said the woman,   said the peasant,   said she,  She drove her oxen away, and the peasant thought,  It was not long before she came in a great hurry with the money, and with her own hands put it in his pocket. Before she went away, she thanked him again a thousand times for his courtesy.\n\n\tWhen the woman got home again, she found her son who had come in from the field. She told him what unlooked-for things had befallen her, and then added,  The son was full of astonishment.  said he,  He saddled the horse and rode off with all speed. He found the peasant who was sitting under a willow-tree, and was just going to count the money in the purse.  cried the youth to him.  answered the peasant,   said the youth,   thought the peasant,   said he, and mounted the horse and rode off in a quick trot. The youth remained sitting there till night fell, but the peasant never came back.  thought he,  He went home and told his mother what had happened, and that he had sent his father the horse so that he might not have to be always running about.  answered she, \n\n\tWhen the peasant got home, he put the horse in the stable beside the cow which he had as a pledge, and then went to his wife and said,  Then he lighted his pipe, sat down in his grandfather's chair, and said,  So thought the peasant, but you no doubt prefer the simple folks.\n\n\t8                