I am at my house in the country and it is late October. It rains. Backof my house is a forest and in front there is a road and beyond thatopen fields. The country is one of low hills, flattening suddenly intoplains. Some twenty miles away, across the flat country, lies the hugecity Chicago.On this rainy day the leaves of the trees that line the road before mywindow are falling like rain, the yellow, red and golden leaves fallstraight down heavily. The rain beats them brutally down. They aredenied a last golden flash across the sky. In October leaves should becarried away, out over the plains, in a wind. They should go dancingaway.Yesterday morning I arose at daybreak and went for a walk. There was aheavy fog and I lost myself in it. I went down into the plains andreturned to the hills, and everywhere the fog was as a wall before me.Out of it trees sprang suddenly, grotesquely, as in a city street lateat night people come suddenly out of the darkness into the circle oflight under a street lamp. Above there was the light of day forcingitself slowly into the fog. The fog moved slowly. The tops of treesmoved slowly. Under the trees the fog was dense, purple. It was likesmoke lying in the streets of a factory town.An old man came up to me in the fog. I know him well. The people herecall him insane. "He is a little cracked," they say. He lives alone ina little house buried deep in the forest and has a small dog he carriesalways in his arms. On many mornings I have met him walking on the roadand he has told me of men and women who are his brothers and sisters,his cousins, aunts, uncles, brothers-in-law. It is confusing. He cannotdraw close to people near at hand so he gets hold of a name out of anewspaper and his mind plays with it. On one morning he told me he wasa cousin to the man named Cox who at the time when I write is acandidate for the presidency. On another morning he told me that Carusothe singer had married a woman who was his sister-in-law. "She is mywife's sister," he said, holding the little dog close. His grey wateryeyes looked appealing up to me. He wanted me to believe. "My wife was asweet slim girl," he declared. "We lived together in a big house and inthe morning walked about arm in arm. Now her sister has married Carusothe singer. He is of my family now."As someone had told me the old man had never married, I went awaywondering. One morning in early September I came upon him sitting undera tree beside a path near his house. The dog barked at me and then ranand crept into his arms. At that time the Chicago newspapers werefilled with the story of a millionaire who had got into trouble withhis wife because of an intimacy with an actress. The old man told methat the actress was his sister. He is sixty years old and the actresswhose story appeared in the newspapers is twenty but he spoke of theirchildhood together. "You would not realize it to see us now but we werepoor then," he said. "It's true. We lived in a little house on the sideof a hill. Once when there was a storm, the wind nearly swept our houseaway. How the wind blew! Our father was a carpenter and he built stronghouses for other people but our own house he did not build verystrong!" He shook his head sorrowfully. "My sister the actress has gotinto trouble. Our house is not built very strongly," he said as I wentaway along the path.
       *       *       *       *       *For a month, two months, the Chicago newspapers, that are deliveredevery morning in our village, have been filled with the story of amurder. A man there has murdered his wife and there seems no reason forthe deed. The tale runs something like this--The man, who is now on trial in the courts and will no doubt be hanged,worked in a bicycle factory where he was a foreman and lived with hiswife and his wife's mother in an apartment in Thirty-second Street. Heloved a girl who worked in the office of the factory where he wasemployed. She came from a town in Iowa and when she first came to thecity lived with her aunt who has since died. To the foreman, a heavystolid looking man with grey eyes, she seemed the most beautiful womanin the world. Her desk was by a window at an angle of the factory, asort of wing of the building, and the foreman, down in the shop had adesk by another window. He sat at his desk making out sheets containingthe record of the work done by each man in his department. When helooked up he could see the girl sitting at work at her desk. The notiongot into his head that she was peculiarly lovely. He did not think oftrying to draw close to her or of winning her love. He looked at her asone might look at a star or across a country of low hills in Octoberwhen the leaves of the trees are all red and yellow gold. "She is apure, virginal thing," he thought vaguely. "What can she be thinkingabout as she sits there by the window at work."In fancy the foreman took the girl from Iowa home with him to hisapartment in Thirty-second Street and into the presence of his wife andhis mother-in-law. All day in the shop and during the evening at homehe carried her figure about with him in his mind. As he stood by awindow in his apartment and looked out toward the Illinois Centralrailroad tracks and beyond the tracks to the lake, the girl was therebeside him. Down below women walked in the street and in every woman hesaw there was something of the Iowa girl. One woman walked as she did,another made a gesture with her hand that reminded of her. All thewomen he saw except his wife and his mother-in-law were like the girlhe had taken inside himself.The two women in his own house puzzled and confused him. They becamesuddenly unlovely and commonplace. His wife in particular was like somestrange unlovely growth that had attached itself to his body.In the evening after the day at the factory he went home to his ownplace and had dinner. He had always been a silent man and when he didnot talk no one minded. After dinner he with his wife went to a pictureshow. There were two children and his wife expected another. They cameinto the apartment and sat down. The climb up two flights of stairs hadwearied his wife. She sat in a chair beside her mother groaning withweariness.The mother-in-law was the soul of goodness. She took the place of aservant in the home and got no pay. When her daughter wanted to go to apicture show she waved her hand and smiled. "Go on," she said. "I don'twant to go. I'd rather sit here." She got a book and sat reading. Thelittle boy of nine awoke and cried. He wanted to sit on the po-po. Themother-in-law attended to that.After the man and his wife came home the three people sat in silencefor an hour or two before bed time. The man pretended to read anewspaper. He looked at his hands. Although he had washed themcarefully grease from the bicycle frames left dark stains under thenails. He thought of the Iowa girl and of her white quick hands playingover the keys of a typewriter. He felt dirty and uncomfortable.The girl at the factory knew the foreman had fallen in love with herand the thought excited her a little. Since her aunt's death she hadgone to live in a rooming house and had nothing to do in the evening.Although the foreman meant nothing to her she could in a way use him.To her he became a symbol. Sometimes he came into the office and stoodfor a moment by the door. His large hands were covered with blackgrease. She looked at him without seeing. In his place in herimagination stood a tall slender young man. Of the foreman she saw onlythe grey eyes that began to burn with a strange fire. The eyesexpressed eagerness, a humble and devout eagerness. In the presence ofa man with such eyes she felt she need not be afraid.She wanted a lover who would come to her with such a look in his eyes.Occasionally, perhaps once in two weeks, she stayed a little late atthe office, pretending to have work that must be finished. Through thewindow she could see the foreman waiting. When everyone had gone sheclosed her desk and went into the street. At the same moment theforeman came out at the factory door.They walked together along the street a half dozen blocks to where shegot aboard her car. The factory was in a place called South Chicago andas they went along evening was coming on. The streets were lined withsmall unpainted frame houses and dirty faced children ran screaming inthe dusty roadway. They crossed over a bridge. Two abandoned coalbarges lay rotting in the stream.He went by her side walking heavily and striving to conceal his hands.He had scrubbed them carefully before leaving the factory but theyseemed to him like heavy dirty pieces of waste matter hanging at hisside. Their walking together happened but a few times and during onesummer. "It's hot," he said. He never spoke to her of anything but theweather. "It's hot," he said. "I think it may rain."She dreamed of the lover who would some time come, a tall fair youngman, a rich man owning houses and lands. The workingman who walkedbeside her had nothing to do with her conception of love. She walkedwith him, stayed at the office until the others had gone to walkunobserved with him because of his eyes, because of the eager thing inhis eyes that was at the same time humble, that bowed down to her. Inhis presence there was no danger, could be no danger. He would neverattempt to approach too closely, to touch her with his hands. She wassafe with him.In his apartment in the evening the man sat under the electric lightwith his wife and his mother-in-law. In the next room his two childrenwere asleep. In a short time his wife would have another child. He hadbeen with her to a picture show and in a short time they would get intobed together.He would lie awake thinking, would hear the creaking of the springs ofa bed where, in another room, his mother-in-law was crawling betweenthe sheets. Life was too intimate. He would lie awake eager, expectant--expecting, what?Nothing. Presently one of the children would cry. It wanted to get outof bed and sit on the po-po. Nothing strange or unusual or lovely wouldor could happen. Life was too close, intimate. Nothing that couldhappen in the apartment could in any way stir him; the things his wifemight say, her occasional half-hearted outbursts of passion, thegoodness of his mother-in-law who did the work of a servant withoutpay--He sat in the apartment under the electric light pretending to read anewspaper--thinking. He looked at his hands. They were large,shapeless, a working-man's hands.The figure of the girl from Iowa walked about the room. With her hewent out of the apartment and walked in silence through miles ofstreets. It was not necessary to say words. He walked with her by asea, along the crest of a mountain. The night was clear and silent andthe stars shone. She also was a star. It was not necessary to saywords.Her eyes were like stars and her lips were like soft hills rising outof dim, star lit plains. "She is unattainable, she is far off like thestars," he thought. "She is unattainable like the stars but unlike thestars she breathes, she lives, like myself she has being."One evening, some six weeks ago, the man who worked as foreman in thebicycle factory killed his wife and he is now in the courts being triedfor murder. Every day the newspapers are filled with the story. On theevening of the murder he had taken his wife as usual to a picture showand they started home at nine. In Thirty-second Street, at a cornernear their apartment building, the figure of a man darted suddenly outof an alleyway and then darted back again. The incident may have putthe idea of killing his wife into the man's head.They got to the entrance to the apartment building and stepped into adark hallway. Then quite suddenly and apparently without thought theman took a knife out of his pocket. "Suppose that man who darted intothe alleyway had intended to kill us," he thought. Opening the knife hewhirled about and struck at his wife. He struck twice, a dozen times--madly. There was a scream and his wife's body fell.The janitor had neglected to light the gas in the lower hallway.Afterwards, the foreman, decided, that was the reason he did it, thatand the fact that the dark slinking figure of a man darted out of analleyway and then darted back again. "Surely," he told himself, "Icould never have done it had the gas been lighted."He stood in the hallway thinking. His wife was dead and with her haddied her unborn child. There was a sound of doors opening in theapartments above. For several minutes nothing happened. His wife andher unborn child were dead--that was all.He ran upstairs thinking quickly. In the darkness on the lower stairwayhe had put the knife back into his pocket and, as it turned out later,there was no blood on his hands or on his clothes. The knife he laterwashed carefully in the bathroom, when the excitement had died down alittle. He told everyone the same story. "There has been a holdup," heexplained. "A man came slinking out of an alleyway and followed me andmy wife home. He followed us into the hallway of the building and therewas no light. The janitor has neglected to light the gas." Well--therehad been a struggle and in the darkness his wife had been killed. Hecould not tell how it had happened. "There was no light. The janitorhas neglected to light the gas," he kept saying.For a day or two they did not question him specially and he had time toget rid of the knife. He took a long walk and threw it away into theriver in South Chicago where the two abandoned coal barges lay rottingunder the bridge, the bridge he had crossed when on the summer eveningshe walked to the street car with the girl who was virginal and pure,who was far off and unattainable, like a star and yet not like a star.And then he was arrested and right away he confessed--told everything.He said he did not know why he killed his wife and was careful to saynothing of the girl at the office. The newspapers tried to discover themotive for the crime. They are still trying. Someone had seen him onthe few evenings when he walked with the girl and she was dragged intothe affair and had her picture printed in the papers. That has beenannoying for her as of course she has been able to prove she hadnothing to do with the man.
       *       *       *       *       *Yesterday morning a heavy fog lay over our village here at the edge ofthe city and I went for a long walk in the early morning. As I returnedout of the lowlands into our hill country I met the old man whosefamily has so many and such strange ramifications. For a time he walkedbeside me holding the little dog in his arms. It was cold and the dogwhined and shivered. In the fog the old man's face was indistinct. Itmoved slowly back and forth with the fog banks of the upper air andwith the tops of trees. He spoke of the man who has killed his wife andwhose name is being shouted in the pages of the city newspapers thatcome to our village each morning. As he walked beside me he launchedinto a long tale concerning a life he and his brother, who has nowbecome a murderer, once lived together. "He is my brother," he saidover and over, shaking his head. He seemed afraid I would not believe.There was a fact that must be established. "We were boys together thatman and I," he began again. "You see we played together in a barn backof our father's house. Our father went away to sea in a ship. That isthe way our names became confused. You understand that. We havedifferent names, but we are brothers. We had the same father. We playedtogether in a barn back of our father's house. For hours we laytogether in the hay in the barn and it was warm there."In the fog the slender body of the old man became like a little gnarledtree. Then it became a thing suspended in air. It swung back and forthlike a body hanging on the gallows. The face beseeched me to believethe story the lips were trying to tell. In my mind everythingconcerning the relationship of men and women became confused, a muddle.The spirit of the man who had killed his wife came into the body of thelittle old man there by the roadside.It was striving to tell me the story it would never be able to tell inthe court room in the city, in the presence of the judge. The wholestory of mankind's loneliness, of the effort to reach out tounattainable beauty tried to get itself expressed from the lips of amumbling old man, crazed with loneliness, who stood by the side of acountry road on a foggy morning holding a little dog in his arms.The arms of the old man held the dog so closely that it began to whinewith pain. A sort of convulsion shook his body. The soul seemedstriving to wrench itself out of the body, to fly away through the fog,down across the plain to the city, to the singer, the politician, themillionaire, the murderer, to its brothers, cousins, sisters, down inthe city. The intensity of the old man's desire was terrible and insympathy my body began to tremble. His arms tightened about the body ofthe little dog so that it cried with pain. I stepped forward and torethe arms away and the dog fell to the ground and lay whining. No doubtit had been injured. Perhaps ribs had been crushed. The old man staredat the dog lying at his feet as in the hallway of the apartmentbuilding the worker from the bicycle factory had stared at his deadwife. "We are brothers," he said again. "We have different names but weare brothers. Our father you understand went off to sea."
       *       *       *       *       *I am sitting in my house in the country and it rains. Before my eyesthe hills fall suddenly away and there are the flat plains and beyondthe plains the city. An hour ago the old man of the house in the forestwent past my door and the little dog was not with him. It may be thatas we talked in the fog he crushed the life out of his companion. Itmay be that the dog like the workman's wife and her unborn child is nowdead. The leaves of the trees that line the road before my window arefalling like rain--the yellow, red and golden leaves fall straightdown, heavily. The rain beat them brutally down. They are denied a lastgolden flash across the sky. In October leaves should be carried away,out over the plains, in a wind. They should go dancing away.Brothers was featured as TheShort Story of the Day on Wed, Sep 10, 20147.9 Add  Brothers to your library.Return to the Sherwood Anderson library, or . . . 