There was once a widow who had two daughters—-one of whom was pretty and industrious, whilst the other was ugly and idle. But she was much fonder of the ugly and idle one, because she was her own daughter; and the other, who was a step-daughter, was obliged to do all the work, and be the Cinderella of the house. Every day the poor girl had to sit by a well, in the highway, and spin and spin till her fingers bled.\n\n\tNow it happened that one day the shuttle was marked with her blood, so she dipped it in the well, to wash the mark off; but it dropped out of her hand and fell to the bottom. She began to weep, and ran to her step-mother and told her of the mishap. But she scolded her sharply, and was so merciless as to say, \n\n\tSo the girl went back to the well, and did not know what to do; and in the sorrow of her heart she jumped into the well to get the shuttle. She lost her senses; and when she awoke and came to herself again, she was in a lovely meadow where the sun was shining and many thousands of flowers were growing. Along this meadow she went, and at last came to a baker's oven full of bread, and the bread cried out,  So she went up to it, and took out all the loaves one after another with the bread-shovel. After that she went on till she came to a tree covered with apples, which called out to her,  So she shook the tree till the apples fell like rain, and went on shaking till they were all down, and when she had gathered them into a heap, she went on her way.\n\n\tAt last she came to a little house, out of which an old woman peeped; but she had such large teeth that the girl was frightened, and was about to run away.\n\n\tBut the old woman called out to her, I have a longing for home; and however well off I am down here, I cannot stay any longer; I must go up again to my own people.I am pleased that you long for your home again, and as you have served me so truly, I myself will take you up again.You shall have that because you have been so industrious,Cock-a-doodle-doo! Your golden girl's come back to you!Oh, take me out! take me out! or I shall burn; I have been baked a long time!As if I had any wish to make myself dirty?Oh, shake me! shake me! we apples are all ripe!I like that! one of you might fall on my head,That is the reward for your service,Cock-a-doodle-doo! Your pitchy girl's come back to you!'\n\n\tBut the pitch stuck fast to her, and could not be got off as long as she lived.\n\n\t10                