There was one on a time a great war, and when it came to an end, many soldiers were discharged. Then Brother Lustig also received his dismissal, and besides that, nothing but a small loaf of contract-bread, and four kreuzers in money, with which he departed. St. Peter had, however, placed himself in his way in the shape of a poor beggar, and when Brother Lustig came up, he begged alms of him. Brother Lustig replied,  Thereupon he divided the loaf into four parts, and gave the apostle one of them, and a kreuzer likewise. St. Peter thanked him, went onwards, and threw himself again in the soldier's way as a beggar, but in another shape; and when he came up begged a gift of him as before. Brother Lustig spoke as he had done before, and again gave him a quarter of the loaf and one kreuzer. St. Peter thanked him, and went onwards, but for the third time placed himself in another shape as a beggar on the road, and spoke to Brother Lustig. Brother Lustig gave him also the third quarter of bread and the third kreuzer. St. Peter thanked him, and Brother Lustig went onwards, and had but a quarter of the loaf, and one kreuzer. With that he went into an inn, ate the bread, and ordered one kreuzer's worth of beer. When he had had it, he journeyed onwards, and then St. Peter, who had assumed the appearance of a discharged soldier, met and spoke to him thus:   answered Brother Lustig;   answered St. Peter,   said Brother Lustig,   said St. Peter,   said Brother Lustig, so they went away together.\n\n\tThen they came to a peasant's house inside which they heard loud lamentations and cries; so they went in, and there the husband was lying sick unto death, and very near his end, and his wife was crying and weeping quite loudly.  said St. Peter,  and he took a salve out of his pocket, and healed the sick man in a moment, so that he could get up, and was in perfect health. In great delight the man and his wife said,  But St. Peter would take nothing, and the more the peasant folks offered him, the more he refused. Brother Lustig, however, nudged St. Peter, and said,  At length the woman brought a lamb and said to St. Peter that he really must take that, but he would not. Then Brother Lustig gave him a poke in the side, and said,  Then St. Peter said at last,   said Brother Lustig.  and took it on his shoulder. Then they departed and came to a wood, but Brother Lustig had begun to feel the lamb heavy, and he was hungry, so he said to St. Peter,   answered St. Peter,   said Brother Lustig,  Then St. Peter went away, and Brother Lustig killed the lamb, lighted a fire, threw the meat into the kettle, and boiled it. The lamb was, however, quite ready, and the apostle Peter had not come back, so Brother Lustig took it out of the kettle, cut it up, and found the heart.  said he, and tasted it, but at last he ate it all up. At length St. Peter returned and said,  Then Brother Lustig took a knife and fork, and pretended to look anxiously about amongst the lamb's flesh, but not to be able to find the heart, and at last he said abruptly,   said the apostle.  replied Brother Lustig,   said St. Peter,   said Brother Lustig,   said St. Peter,   said Brother Lustig, and he ate half the lamb, and put the rest in his knapsack.\n\n\tThey went farther, and then St. Peter caused a great stream of water to flow right across their path, and they were obliged to pass through it. Said St. Peter,   answered Brother Lustig,  and he thought,  Then St. Peter strode through it, and the water just reached to his knee. So Brother Lustig began to go through also, but the water grew deeper and reached to his throat. Then he cried,  St. Peter said,   said he,  Then the water grew deeper still and rose to his mouth.  cried the soldier. St. Peter said,   he replied,  St. Peter, however, would not let him be drowned, but made the water sink and helped him through it.\n\n\tThen they journeyed onwards, and came to a kingdom where they heard that the King's daughter lay sick unto death.  said the soldier to St. Peter,  But St. Peter was not half quick enough for him,  said he,  But St. Peter walked slower and slower, though Brother Lustig did all he could to drive and push him on, and at last they heard that the princess was dead.  said Brother Lustig;   answered St. Peter,   said Brother Lustig,  Then they went to the royal palace, where every one was in great grief, but St. Peter told the King that he would restore his daughter to life. He was taken to her, and said,  and when that was brought, he bade everyone go out, and allowed no one to remain with him but Brother Lustig. Then he cut off all the dead girl's limbs, and threw them in the water, lighted a fire beneath the kettle, and boiled them. And when the flesh had fallen away from the bones, he took out the beautiful white bones, and laid them on a table, and arranged them together in their natural order. When he had done that, he stepped forward and said three times,  And at the third time, the princess arose, living, healthy and beautiful. Then the King was in the greatest joy, and said to St. Peter,  But St. Peter said,   thought Brother Lustig to himself, and nudged his comrade's side, and said,  St. Peter, however, would have nothing, but as the King saw that the other would very much like to have something, he ordered his treasurer to fill Brother Lustig's knapsack with gold. Then they went on their way, and when they came to a forest, St. Peter said to Brother Lustig,   he replied,  So St. Peter divided the gold, and divided it into three heaps. Brother Lustig thought to himself,  But St. Peter said, \n\n\t replied Brother Lustig, and hastily swept up the gold.   said St. Peter,    said St. Peter,   answered Brother Lustig. \n\n\tThen St. Peter went a different road, but Brother Lustig thought,  Then he had money enough, but did not know how to manage it, squandered it, gave it away, and and when some time had gone by, once more had nothing. Then he arrived in a certain country where he heard that a King's daughter was dead.  thought he,  So he went to the King, and offered to raise the dead girl to life again. Now the King had heard that a discharged soldier was traveling about and bringing dead persons to life again, and thought that Brother Lustig was the man; but as he had no confidence in him, he consulted his councillors first, who said that he might give it a trial as his daughter was dead. Then Brother Lustig ordered water to be brought to him in a kettle, bade every one go out, cut the limbs off, threw them in the water and lighted a fire beneath, just as he had seen St. Peter do. The water began to boil, the flesh fell off, and then he took the bones out and laid them on the table, but he did not know the order in which to lay them, and placed them all wrong and in confusion. Then he stood before them and said,  and he said this thrice, but the bones did not stir. So he said it thrice more, but also in vain:  cried he,  When he had said that, St. Peter suddenly appeared in his former shape as a discharged soldier; he entered by the window and said,   he answered.  Thereupon St. Peter laid the bones in their right order, said to the maiden three times,  and the King's daughter arose, healthy and beautiful as before. Then St. Peter went away again by the window, and Brother Lustig was rejoiced to find that all had passed off so well, but was very much vexed to think that after all he was not to take anything for it.  thought he,  Then the King offered Brother Lustig whatsoever he wished to have, but he did not dare to take anything; however, by hints and cunning, he contrived to make the King order his knapsack to be filled with gold for him, and with that he departed. When he got out, St. Peter was standing by the door, and said,   answered Brother Lustig,     said St. Peter,   said Brother Lustig, and thought to himself,  But of the magical power which had been bestowed on his knapsack, he thought no more.\n\n\tBrother Lustig travelled about with his money, and squandered and wasted what he had as before. When at last he had no more than four kreuzers, he passed by an inn and thought,  and ordered three kreuzers' worth of wine and one kreuzer's worth of bread for himself. As he was sitting there drinking, the smell of roast goose made its way to his nose. Brother Lustig looked about and peeped, and saw that the host had two geese standing in the oven. Then he remembered that his comrade had said that whatsoever he wished to have in his knapsack should be there, so he said,  So he went out, and when he was outside the door, he said,  and when he had said that, he unbuckled it and looked in, and there they were inside it.  said he,  and went away to a meadow and took out the roast meat. When he was in the midst of his meal, two journeymen came up and looked at the second goose, which was not yet touched, with hungry eyes. Brother Lustig thought to himself,  and called the two men up and said,  They thanked him, and went with it to the inn, ordered themselves a half bottle of wine and a loaf, took out the goose which had been given them, and began to eat. The hostess saw them and said to her husband,  The landlord ran thither, and behold the oven was empty!  cried he,  The two said,   But as they could not pay, he took a stick, and cudgeled them out of the house.\n\n\tBrother Lustig went his way and came to a place where there was a magnificent castle, and not far from it a wretched inn. He went to the inn and asked for a night's lodging, but the landlord turned him away, and said,   said Brother Lustig.  replied the host, \n\n\t said Brother Lustig, \n\n\t said the host,   said Brother Lustig,  So the host gave him the key, and food and wine, and with this Brother Lustig went into the castle, enjoyed his supper, and at length, as he was sleepy, he lay down on the ground, for there was no bed. He soon fell asleep, but during the night was disturbed by a great noise, and when he awoke, he saw nine ugly devils in the room, who had made a circle, and were dancing around him. Brother Lustig said,  But the devils pressed continually nearer to him, and almost stepped on his face with their hideous feet.  said he, but they behaved still worse. Then Brother Lustig grew angry, and cried,  and got the leg of a chair and struck out into the midst of them with it. But nine devils against one soldier were still too many, and when he struck those in front of him, the others seized him behind by the hair, and tore it unmercifully.  cried he,  In an instant they were in it, and then he buckled it up and threw it into a corner. After this all was suddenly quiet, and Brother Lustig lay down again, and slept till it was bright day. Then came the inn-keeper, and the nobleman to whom the castle belonged, to see how he had fared; but when they perceived that he was merry and well they were astonished, and asked,   answered Brother Lustig,  The nobleman thanked him, made him rich presents, and begged him to remain in his service, and he would provide for him as long as he lived.  replied Brother Lustig,  Then he went away, and entered into a smithy, laid the knapsack, which contained the nine devils on the anvil, and asked the smith and his apprentices to strike it. So they smote with their great hammers with all their strength, and the devils uttered howls which were quite pitiable. When he opened the knapsack after this, eight of them were dead, but one which had been lying in a fold of it, was still alive, slipped out, and went back again to hell. Thereupon Brother Lustig travelled a long time about the world, and those who know them can tell many a story about him, but at last he grew old, and thought of his end, so he went to a hermit who was known to be a pious man, and said to him,  The hermit replied,   thought Brother Lustig,  So he set out and took the broad and pleasant road, and at length came to a great black door, which was the door of Hell. Brother Lustig knocked, and the door-keeper peeped out to see who was there. But when he saw Brother Lustig, he was terrified, for he was the very same ninth devil who had been shut up in the knapsack, and had escaped from it with a black eye. So he pushed the bolt in again as quickly as he could, ran to the devil's lieutenant, and said,  So they called out to Brother Lustig that he was to go away again, for he should not get in there!  thought he,  So he turned about and went onwards until he came to the door of Heaven, where he knocked. St. Peter was sitting hard by as door-keeper. Brother Lustig recognised him at once, and thought,  But St. Peter said,    said St. Peter,    said St. Peter. Then Brother Lustig gave him the knapsack into Heaven through the bars, and St. Peter took it, and hung it beside his seat. Then said Brother Lustig,  and in a second he was in it, and in Heaven, and St. Peter was forced to let him stay there.\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t