The wife of a rich man fell sick, and as she felt that her end was drawing near, she called her only daughter to her bedside and said,  Thereupon she closed her eyes and departed. Every day the maiden went out to her mother's grave, and wept, and she remained pious and good. When winter came the snow spread a white sheet over the grave, and when the spring sun had drawn it off again, the man had taken another wife.\n\n\tThe woman had brought two daughters into the house with her, who were beautiful and fair of face, but vile and black of heart. Now began a bad time for the poor step-child.  said they.  They took her pretty clothes away from her, put an old grey bedgown on her, and gave her wooden shoes.  they cried, and laughed, and led her into the kitchen. There she had to do hard work from morning till night, get up before daybreak, carry water, light fires, cook and wash. Besides this, the sisters did her every imaginable injury — they mocked her and emptied her peas and lentils into the ashes, so that she was forced to sit and pick them out again. In the evening when she had worked till she was weary she had no bed to go to, but had to sleep by the fireside in the ashes. And as on that account she always looked dusty and dirty, they called her Cinderella. It happened that the father was once going to the fair, and he asked his two step-daughters what he should bring back for them.  said one,  said the second.  said he,   So he bought beautiful dresses, pearls and jewels for his two step-daughters, and on his way home, as he was riding through a green thicket, a hazel twig brushed against him and knocked off his hat. Then he broke off the branch and took it with him. When he reached home he gave his step-daughters the things which they had wished for, and to Cinderella he gave the branch from the hazel-bush. Cinderella thanked him, went to her mother's grave and planted the branch on it, and wept so much that the tears fell down on it and watered it. And it grew, however, and became a handsome tree. Thrice a day Cinderella went and sat beneath it, and wept and prayed, and a little white bird always came on the tree, and if Cinderella expressed a wish, the bird threw down to her what she had wished for.\n\n\tIt happened, however, that the King appointed a festival which was to last three days, and to which all the beautiful young girls in the country were invited, in order that his son might choose himself a bride. When the two step-sisters heard that they too were to appear among the number, they were delighted, called Cinderella and said,  Cinderella obeyed, but wept, because she too would have liked to go with them to the dance, and begged her step-mother to allow her to do so.  said she;  As, however, Cinderella went on asking, the step-mother at last said,  The maiden went through the back-door into the garden, and called, The good into the pot, The bad into the crop.No, Cinderella, thou hast no clothes and thou canst not dance; thou wouldst only be laughed at.If thou canst pick two dishes of lentils out of the ashes for me in one hour, thou shalt go with us.That she most certainly cannot do.The good into the pot, The bad into the crop.All this will not help thee; thou goest not with us, for thou hast no clothes and canst not dance; we should be ashamed of thee!Shiver and quiver, little tree, Silver and gold throw down over me.This is my partner.I will go with thee and bear thee company,Can it be Cinderella?Shiver and quiver, my little tree, Silver and gold throw down over me.She is my partner.The stranger-maiden has escaped from me, and I believe she has climbed up the pear-tree.Can it be Cinderella?Shiver and quiver, my little tree, Silver and gold throw down over me.She is my partner.No one shall be my wife but she whose foot this golden slipper fits.Cut the toe off; when thou art Queen thou wilt have no more need to go on foot.Turn and peep, turn and peep, There's blood within the shoe,\n\n\tThe shoe it is too small for her, The true bride waits for you.Cut a bit off thy heel; when thou art Queen thou wilt have no more need to go on foot.Turn and peep, turn and peep, There's blood within the shoe\n\n\tThe shoe it is too small for her, The true bride waits for you.This also is not the right one,have you no other daughter?No,There is still a little stunted kitchen-wench which my late wife left behind her, but she cannot possibly be the bride.Oh, no, she is much too dirty, she cannot show herself!That is the true bride!Turn and peep, turn and peep, No blood is in the shoe, The shoe is not too small for her, The true bride rides with you,fractured fairy tale' version of this story in rhyme, How Cinderella Disposed of Her Shoe.\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t