A soldier who is afraid of nothing, troubles himself about nothing. One of this kind had received his discharge, and as he had learnt no trade and could earn nothing, he travelled about and begged alms of kind people. He had an old waterproof on his back, and a pair of riding-boots of buffalo-leather which were still left to him. One day he was walking he knew not where, straight out into the open country, and at length came to a forest. He did not know where he was, but saw sitting on the trunk of a tree, which had been cut down, a man who was well dressed and wore a green shooting-coat. The soldier shook hands with him, sat down on the grass by his side, and stretched out his legs.  said he to the huntsman;  After a while the soldier got up and said,   answered the huntsman,   said the soldier;  The huntsman smiled a little, and they walked on further and further, until night fell.  said the soldier,  They found a stone house, knocked at the door, and an old woman opened it.  said the soldier,   answered the old woman;   answered the soldier,  The huntsman would not follow, but the soldier drew him in with him by the sleeve.  The old woman had pity on them and said,  Scarcely were they in the corner before twelve robbers came bursting in, seated themselves at the table which was already laid, and vehemently demanded some food. The old woman brought in some great dishes of roast meat, and the robbers enjoyed that thoroughly. When the smell of the food ascended the nostrils of the soldier, he said to the huntsman,   said the huntsman, and held him back by the arm. But the soldier began to cough loudly. When the robbers heard that, they threw away their knives and forks, leapt up, and discovered the two who were behind the stove.  cried they,   said the soldier,  The robbers were astonished, and the captain said,   said the soldier, and seated himself at the table, and began to cut away valiantly at the roast meat.  cried he to the huntsman;  but the huntsman would not eat. The robbers looked at the soldier in astonishment, and said,  After a while he said,  The captain was in the mood to humour him in this also, and called to the old woman,  The soldier drew the cork out with a loud noise, and then went with the bottle to the huntsman and said,  Then he brandished the bottle over the heads of the robbers, and cried,  and then he drank a hearty draught. Scarcely were the words said than they all sat motionless as if made of stone, and their mouths were open and their right hands stretched up in the air. The huntsman said to the soldier,   The old woman had to bring another bottle of the best wine, and the soldier would not stir until he had eaten enough to last for three days. At last when day came, he said,  When they had arrived there, he went to his old comrades, and said,  The soldier led them, and said to the huntsman,  He placed the men round about the robbers, and then he took the bottle, drank a mouthful, brandished it above them, and cried,  Instantly they all regained the power of movement, but were thrown down and bound hand and foot with cords. Then the soldier ordered them to be thrown into a cart as if they had been so many sacks, and said,  The huntsman, however, took one of the men aside and gave him another commission besides.  said the soldier,  When they approached the town, the soldier saw a crowd of people pouring through the gate of the town who were raising loud cries of joy, and waving green boughs in the air. Then he saw that the entire body-guard was coming up.  said he to the huntsman.  he replied,   said the soldier,   answered the huntsman,  Then he opened his hunting-coat, and his royal garments were visible. The soldier was alarmed, and fell on his knees and begged him to forgive him for having in his ignorance treated him as an equal, and spoken to him by such a name. But the King shook hands with him, and said, \n\n\t6.9                