There was once a peasant who had driven his cow to the fair, and sold her for seven thalers. On the way home he had to pass a pond, and already from afar he heard the frogs crying,   said he to himself,  When he got to the water, he cried to them,  The frogs, however, stood to their,   And he took his money out of his pocket and counted out the seven thalers, always reckoning four and twenty groschen to a thaler. The frogs, however, paid no attention to his reckoning, but still cried,   cried the peasant, quite angry,  and threw all the money into the water to them. He stood still and wanted to wait until they were done and had brought him his own again, but the frogs maintained their opinion and cried continually,  and besides that, did not throw the money out again. He still waited a long while until evening came on and he was forced to go home. Then he abused the frogs and cried,  And with that he went away, but the frogs still cried,  after him till he went home quite angry.\n\n\tAfter a while he bought another cow, which he killed, and he made the calculation that if he sold the meat well he might gain as much as the two cows were worth, and have the skin into the bargain. When therefore he got to the town with the meat, a great troop of dogs were gathered together in front of the gate, with a large greyhound at the head of them, which jumped at the meat, snuffed at it, and barked,  As there was no stopping him, the peasant said to him,  The dog, however, answered nothing but    said the dog.  Thereupon he unloaded the meat and turned back again, the dogs fell upon it and loudly barked, \n\n\tThe countryman, who heard them from afar, said to himself, \n\n\tWhen three days had passed, the countryman thought,  and was quite delighted. But no one would come and pay it.  said he; and at last he lost patience, and went into the town to the butcher and demanded his money. The butcher thought it was a joke, but the peasant said,  Then the butcher grew angry, snatched a broomstick and drove him out.  said the peasant,  and went to the royal palace and begged for an audience. He was led before the King, who sat there with his daughter, and asked him what injury he had suffered.  said he,  and he related at full length all that had happened. Thereupon the King's daughter began to laugh heartily, and the King said to him, \n\n\t answered the peasant,  Then the King grew angry, and said,   replied the peasant,   answered the King, \n\n\tWhen the peasant went out by the gate, the sentry said,   answered the peasant;   said the soldier,   said the peasant,  A Jew, who was standing by and had heard the conversation, ran after the peasant, held him by the coat, and said,   said the countryman,  The Jew was delighted with the profit, and brought the sum in bad groschen, three of which were worth two good ones. After three days had passed, according to the King's command, the peasant went before the King.  said the latter,   said the peasant,  In the meantime the soldier and the Jew entered and claimed what they had gained from the peasant, and they received the blows strictly counted out. The soldier bore it patiently and knew already how it tasted, but the Jew said sorrowfully,  The King could not help laughing at the peasant, and as all his anger was gone, he said,  The peasant did not need to be told twice, and stuffed into his big pockets whatsoever would go in. Afterwards he went to an inn and counted out his money. The Jew had crept after him and heard how he muttered to himself,   said the Jew to himself, \n\n\tWhen the King heard of the peasant's words he fell into a passion, and commanded the Jew to go and bring the offender to him. The Jew ran to the peasant,   answered the peasant,  The Jew, as he saw that the peasant would not stir without another coat, and as he feared that if the King's anger cooled, he himself would lose his reward, and the peasant his punishment, said,  The peasant was contented with this, put the Jew's coat on, and went off with him.\n\n\tThe King reproached the countryman because of the evil speaking of which the Jew had informed him.  said the peasant, \n\n\t shrieked the Jew.  When the King heard that, he said,  and again he ordered something to be counted out to him in hard thalers. The peasant, however, went home in the good coat, with the good money in his pocket, and said to himself, \n\n\t8.5                