"A handful of good life is worth a bushel of learning.

" Dear Emily, --I have a brilliant idea, and at once hasten to share itwith you.

Three weeks ago I came up here to the wilds of Vermont tovisit my old aunt, also to get a little quiet and distance in whichto survey certain new prospects which have opened before me, and todecide whether I will marry a millionnaire and become a queen ofsociety, or remain 'the charming Miss Vaughan' and wait till theconquering hero comes.

Aunt Plumy begs me to stay over Christmas, and I have consented, as Ialways dread the formal dinner with which my guardian celebrates theday.

My brilliant idea is this.

I'm going to make it a real old-fashionedfrolic, and won't you come and help me? You will enjoy it immensely Iam sure, for Aunt is a character.

Cousin Saul worth seeing, and Rutha far prettier girl than any of the city rose-buds coming out thisseason.

Bring Leonard Randal along with you to take notes for his newbooks; then it will be fresher and truer than the last, clever as itwas.

The air is delicious up here, society amusing, this old farmhousefull of treasures, and your bosom friend pining to embrace you.

Justtelegraph yes or no, and we will expect you on Tuesday.

Ever yours, SOPHIE VAUGHAN "They will both come, for they are as tired of city life and as fondof change as I am," said the writer of the above, as she folded herletter and went to get it posted without delay.

Aunt Plumy was in the great kitchen making pies; a jolly old soul,with a face as ruddy as a winter apple, a cheery voice, and thekindest heart that ever beat under a gingham gown.

Pretty Ruth waschopping the mince, and singing so gaily as she worked that thefour-and-twenty immortal blackbirds could not have put more music intoa pie than she did.

Saul was piling wood into the big oven, and Sophiepaused a moment on the threshold to look at him, for she alwaysenjoyed the sight of this stalwart cousin, whom she likened to a Norseviking, with his fair hair and beard, keen blue eyes, and six feet ofmanly height, with shoulders that looked broad and strong enough tobear any burden.

His back was toward her, but he saw her first, and turned his flushedface to meet her, with the sudden lighting up it always showed whenshe approached.

"I've done it, Aunt; and now I want Saul to post the letter, so we canget a speedy answer.

" "Just as soon as I can hitch up, cousin;" and Saul pitched in his lastlog, looking ready to put a girdle round the earth in less than fortyminutes.

"Well, dear, I ain't the least mite of objection, as long as itpleases you.

I guess we can stan' it ef your city folks can.

I presumeto say things will look kind of sing'lar to 'em, but I s'pose that'swhat they come for.

Idle folks do dreadful queer things to amuse 'em;"and Aunt Plumy leaned on the rolling-pin to smile and nod with ashrewd twinkle of her eye, as if she enjoyed the prospect as much asSophie did.

"I shall be afraid of 'em, but I'll try not to make you ashamed ofme," said Ruth, who loved her charming cousin even more than sheadmired her.

"No fear of that, dear.

They will be the awkward ones, and you mustset them at ease by just being your simple selves, and treating themas if they were every-day people.

Nell is very nice and jolly when shedrops her city ways, as she must here.

She will enter into the spiritof the fun at once, and I know you'll all like her.

Randal israther the worse for too much praise and petting, as successful peopleare apt to be, so a little plain talk and rough work will do him good.

He is a true gentleman in spite of his airs and elegance, and he willtake it all in good part, if you treat him like a man and not a lion.

" "I'll see to him," said Saul, who had listened with great interest tothe latter part of Sophie's speech, evidently suspecting a lover, andenjoying the idea of supplying him with a liberal amount of "plaintalk and rough work.

" "I'll keep 'em busy if that's what they need, for there will be asight to do, and we can't get help easy up here.

Our darters don'thire out much.

Work to home till they marry, and don't go gaddin''round gettin' their heads full of foolish notions, and forgettin' allthe useful things their mothers taught 'em.

" Aunt Plumy glanced at Ruth as she spoke, and a sudden color in thegirl's cheeks proved that the words hit certain ambitious fancies ofthis pretty daughter of the house of Basset.

"They shall do their parts and not be a trouble; I'll see to that,for you certainly are the dearest aunt in the world to let me takepossession of you and yours in this way," cried Sophie, embracing theold lady with warmth.

Saul wished the embrace could be returned by proxy, as his mother'shands were too floury to do more than hover affectionately round thedelicate face that looked so fresh and young beside her wrinkled one.

As it could not be done, he fled temptation and "hitched up" withoutdelay.

The three women laid their heads together in his absence, and Sophie'splan grew apace, for Ruth longed to see a real novelist and a finelady, and Aunt Plumy, having plans of her own to further, said "Yes,dear," to every suggestion.

Great was the arranging and adorning that went on that day in theold farmhouse, for Sophie wanted her friends to enjoy this taste ofcountry pleasures, and knew just what additions would be indispensableto their comfort; what simple ornaments would be in keeping with therustic stage on which she meant to play the part of prima donna.

Next day a telegram arrived accepting the invitation, for both thelady and the lion.

They would arrive that afternoon, as littlepreparation was needed for this impromptu journey, the novelty ofwhich was its chief charm to these blase people.

Saul wanted to get out the double sleigh and span, for he pridedhimself on his horses, and a fall of snow came most opportunelyto beautify the landscape and add a new pleasure to Christmasfestivities.

But Sophie declared that the old yellow sleigh, with Punch, thefarm-horse, must be used, as she wished everything to be in keeping;and Saul obeyed, thinking he had never seen anything prettier than hiscousin when she appeared in his mother's old-fashioned camlet cloakand blue silk pumpkin hood.

He looked remarkably well himself in hisfur coat, with hair and beard brushed till they shone like spun gold,a fresh color in his cheek, and the sparkle of amusement in his eyes,while excitement gave his usually grave face the animation it neededto be handsome.

Away they jogged in the creaking old sleigh, leaving Ruth to makeherself pretty, with a fluttering heart, and Aunt Plumy to dish up alate dinner fit to tempt the most fastidious appetite.

"She has not come for us, and there is not even a stage to take us up.

There must be some mistake," said Emily Herrick, as she looked aboutthe shabby little station where they were set down.

"That is the never-to-be-forgotten face of our fair friend, but thebonnet of her grandmother, if my eyes do not deceive me," answeredRandal, turning to survey the couple approaching in the rear.

"Sophie Vaughan, what do you mean by making such a guy of yourself?"exclaimed Emily, as she kissed the smiling face in the hood and staredat the quaint cloak.

"I'm dressed for my part, and I intend to keep it up.

This is ourhost, my cousin, Saul Basset.

Come to the sleigh at once, he will seeto your luggage," said Sophie, painfully conscious of the antiquity ofher array as her eyes rested on Emily's pretty hat and mantle, and themasculine elegance of Randal's wraps.

They were hardly tucked in when Saul appeared with a valise inone hand and a large trunk on his shoulder, swinging both on to awood-sled that stood near by as easily as if they had been hand-bags.

"That is your hero, is it? Well, he looks it, calm and comely,taciturn and tall," said Emily, in a tone of approbation.

"He should have been named Samson or Goliath; though I believe it wasthe small man who slung things about and turned out the hero in theend," added Randal, surveying the performance with interest and atouch of envy, for much pen work had made his own hands as delicate asa woman's.

"Saul doesn't live in a glass house, so stones won't hurt him.

Remember sarcasm is forbidden and sincerity the order of the day.

Youare country folks now, and it will do you good to try their simple,honest ways for a few days.

" Sophie had no time to say more, for Saul came up and drove off withthe brief remark that the baggage would "be along right away.

" Being hungry, cold and tired, the guests were rather silent during theshort drive, but Aunt Plumy's hospitable welcome, and the savory fumesof the dinner awaiting them, thawed the ice and won their hearts atonce.

"Isn't it nice? Aren't you glad you came?" asked Sophie, as she ledher friends into the parlor, which she had redeemed from its primnessby putting bright chintz curtains to the windows, hemlock boughsover the old portraits, a china bowl of flowers on the table, and asplendid fire on the wide hearth.

"It is perfectly jolly, and this is the way I begin to enjoy myself,"answered Emily, sitting down upon the home-made rug, whose red flannelroses bloomed in a blue list basket.

"If I may add a little smoke to your glorious fire, it will be quiteperfect.

Won't Samson join me?" asked Randal, waiting for permission,cigar-case in hand.

"He has no small vices, but you may indulge yours," answered Sophie,from the depths of a grandmotherly chair.

Emily glanced up at her friend as if she caught a new tone in hervoice, then turned to the fire again with a wise little nod, as ifconfiding some secret to the reflection of herself in the bright brassandiron.

"His Delilah does not take this form.

I wait with interest to discoverif he has one.

What a daisy the sister is.

Does she ever speak?" askedRandal, trying to lounge on the haircloth sofa, where he was slippinguncomfortably about.

"Oh yes, and sings like a bird.

You shall hear her when she gets overher shyness.

But no trifling, mind you, for it is a jealously guardeddaisy and not to be picked by any idle hand," said Sophie warningly,as she recalled Ruth's blushes and Randal's compliments at dinner.

"I should expect to be annihilated by the big brother if I attemptedany but the 'sincerest' admiration and respect.

Have no fears on thatscore, but tell us what is to follow this superb dinner.

An apple bee,spinning match, husking party, or primitive pastime of some sort, Ihave no doubt.

" "As you are new to our ways I am going to let you rest this evening.

We will sit about the fire and tell stories.

Aunt is a master handat that, and Saul has reminiscences of the war that are well worthhearing if we can only get him to tell them.

" "Ah, he was there, was he?" "Yes, all through it, and is Major Basset, though he likes his plainname best.

He fought splendidly and had several wounds, though only amere boy when he earned his scars and bars.

I'm very proud of him forthat," and Sophie looked so as she glanced at the photograph ofa stripling in uniform set in the place of honor on the highmantel-piece.

"We must stir him up and hear these martial memories.

I want some newincidents, and shall book all I can get, if I may.

" Here Randal was interrupted by Saul himself, who came in with anarmful of wood for the fire.

"Anything more I can do for you, cousin?" he asked, surveying thescene with a rather wistful look.

"Only come and sit with us and talk over war times with Mr.

Randal.

" "When I've foddered the cattle and done my chores I'd be pleased to.

What regiment were you in?" asked Saul, looking down from his loftyheight upon the slender gentleman, who answered briefly,-- "In none.

I was abroad at the time.

" "Sick?" "No, busy with a novel.

" "Took four years to write it?" "I was obliged to travel and study before I could finish it.

Thesethings take more time to work up than outsiders would believe.

" "Seems to me our war was a finer story than any you could find inEurope, and the best way to study it would be to fight it out.

If youwant heroes and heroines you'd have found plenty of 'em there.

" "I have no doubt of it, and shall be glad to atone for my seemingneglect of them by hearing about your own exploits.

Major.

" Randal hoped to turn the conversation gracefully, but Saul was notto be caught, and left the room, saying, with a gleam of fun in hiseye,-- "I can't stop now; heroes can wait, pigs can't.

" The girls laughed at this sudden descent from the sublime to theridiculous, and Randal joined them, feeling his condescension had notbeen unobserved.

As if drawn by the merry sound Aunt Plumy appeared, and beingestablished in the rocking-chair fell to talking as easily as if shehad known her guests for years.

"Laugh away, young folks, that's better for digestion than any of themesses people use.

Are you troubled with dyspepsy, dear? You didn'tseem to take your vittles very hearty, so I mistrusted you wasdelicate," she said, looking at Emily, whose pale cheeks and wearyeyes told the story of late hours and a gay life.

"I haven't eaten so much for years, I assure you, Mrs.

Basset; butit was impossible to taste all your good things.

I am not dyspeptic,thank you, but a little seedy and tired, for I've been working ratherhard lately.

" "Be you a teacher? or have you a 'perfessun,' as they call a tradenowadays?" asked the old lady in a tone of kindly interest, whichprevented a laugh at the idea of Emily's being anything but a beautyand a belle.

The others kept their countenances with difficulty, andshe answered demurely,-- "I have no trade as yet, but I dare say I should be happier if I had.

" "Not a doubt on't, my dear.

" "What would you recommend, ma'am?" "I should say dressmakin' was rather in your line, ain't it? Yourclothes is dreadful tasty, and do you credit if you made 'emyourself.

" and Aunt Plumy surveyed with feminine interest the simpleelegance of the travelling dress which was the masterpiece of a Frenchmodiste.

"No, ma'am, I don't make my own things, I'm too lazy.

It takes so muchtime and trouble to select them that I have only strength left to wearthem.

" "Housekeepin' used to be the favorite perfessun in my day.

It ain'tfashionable now, but it needs a sight of trainin' to be perfect in allthat's required, and I've an idee it would be a sight healthier andusefuller than the paintin' and music and fancy work young women donowadays.

" "But every one wants some beauty in their lives, and each one has adifferent sphere to fill, if one can only find it.

" "'Pears to me there's no call for so much art when nater is full ofbeauty for them that can see and love it.

As for 'spears' and so on,I've a notion if each of us did up our own little chores smart andthorough we needn't go wanderin' round to set the world to rights.

That's the Lord's job, and I presume to say He can do it without anyadvice of ourn.

" Something in the homely but true words seemed to rebuke the threelisteners for wasted lives, and for a moment there was no sound butthe crackle of the fire, the brisk click of the old lady's knittingneedles, and Ruth's voice singing overhead as she made ready to jointhe party below.

"To judge by that sweet sound you have done one of your 'chores' verybeautifully, Mrs.

Basset, and in spite of the follies of our day,succeeded in keeping one girl healthy, happy and unspoiled," saidEmily, looking up into the peaceful old face with her own lovely onefull of respect and envy.

"I do hope so, for she's my ewe lamb, the last of four dear littlegirls; all the rest are in the burying ground 'side of father.

I don'texpect to keep her long, and don't ought to regret when I lose her,for Saul is the best of sons; but daughters is more to motherssomehow, and I always yearn over girls that is left without a broodin'wing to keep 'em safe and warm in this world of tribulation.

" Aunt Plumy laid her hand on Sophie's head as she spoke, with such amotherly look that both girls drew nearer, and Randal resolved to puther in a book without delay.

Presently Saul returned with little Ruth hanging on his arm and shylynestling near him as he took the three-cornered leathern chair in thechimney nook, while she sat on a stool close by.

"Now the circle is complete and the picture perfect.

Don't light thelamps yet, please, but talk away and let me make a mental studyof you.

I seldom find so charming a scene to paint," said Randal,beginning to enjoy himself immensely, with a true artist's taste fornovelty and effect.

"Tell us about your book, for we have been reading it as it comes outin the magazine, and are much exercised about how it's going toend," began Saul, gallantly throwing himself into the breach, for amomentary embarrassment fell upon the women at the idea of sitting fortheir portraits before they were ready.

"Do you really read my poor serial up here, and do me the honor tolike it?" asked the novelist, both flattered and amused, for his workwas of the aesthetic sort, microscopic studies of character, andcareful pictures of modern life.

"Sakes alive, why shouldn't we?" cried Aunt Plumy.

"We have someeddication, though we ain't very genteel.

We've got a town libry, kepup by the women mostly, with fairs and tea parties and so on.

We haveall the magazines reg'lar, and Saul reads out the pieces while Ruthsews and I knit, my eyes bein' poor.

Our winter is long and eveninswould be kinder lonesome if we didn't have novils and newspapers tocheer 'em up.

" "I am very glad I can help to beguile them for you.

Now tell me whatyou honestly think of my work? Criticism is always valuable, and Ishould really like yours, Mrs.

Basset," said Randal, wondering whatthe good woman would make of the delicate analysis and worldly wisdomon which he prided himself.

Short work, as Aunt Plumy soon showed him, for she rather enjoyedfreeing her mind at all times, and decidedly resented the insinuationthat country folk could not appreciate light literature as well ascity people.

"I ain't no great of a jedge about anything but nat'ralness of books,and it really does seem as if some of your men and women was dreadfuluncomfortable creaters.

'Pears to me it ain't wise to be alwayspickin' ourselves to pieces and pryin' into things that ought tocome gradual by way of experience and the visitations of Providence.

Flowers won't blow worth a cent ef you pull 'em open.

Better wait andsee what they can do alone.

I do relish the smart sayins, the odd waysof furrin parts, and the sarcastic slaps at folkses weak spots.

Butmassy knows, we can't live on spice-cake and Charlotte Ruche, and Ido feel as if books was more sustainin' ef they was full of every-daypeople and things, like good bread and butter.

Them that goes to theheart and ain't soon forgotten is the kind I hanker for.

Mis Terry'sbooks now, and Mis Stowe's, and Dickens's Christmas pieces,--them isreal sweet and cheerin', to my mind.

" As the blunt old lady paused it was evident she had produced asensation, for Saul smiled at the fire, Ruth looked dismayed atthis assault upon one of her idols, and the young ladies were bothastonished and amused at the keenness of the new critic who daredexpress what they had often felt.

Randal, however, was quite composedand laughed good-naturedly, though secretly feeling as if a pail ofcold water had been poured over him.

"Many thanks, madam; you have discovered my weak point with surprisingaccuracy.

But you see I cannot help 'picking folks to pieces,' as youhave expressed it; that is my gift, and it has its attractions, as thesale of my books will testify.

People like the 'spice-bread,' and asthat is the only sort my oven will bake, I must keep on in order tomake my living.

" "So rumsellers say, but it ain't a good trade to foller, and I'd chopwood 'fore I'd earn my livin' harmin' my feller man.

'Pears to me I'dlet my oven cool a spell, and hunt up some homely, happy folks towrite about; folks that don't borrer trouble and go lookin' for holesin their neighbors' coats, but take their lives brave and cheerful;and rememberin' we are all human, have pity on the weak, and try tobe as full of mercy, patience and lovin' kindness as Him who madeus.

That sort of a book would do a heap of good; be real warmin' andstrengthening and make them that read it love the man that wrote it,and remember him when he was dead and gone.

" "I wish I could!" and Randal meant what he said, for he was as tiredof his own style as a watch-maker might be of the magnifying glassthrough which he strains his eyes all day.

He knew that the heart wasleft out of his work, and that both mind and soul were growing morbidwith dwelling on the faulty, absurd and metaphysical phases of lifeand character.

He often threw down his pen and vowed he would write nomore; but he loved ease and the books brought money readily; he wasaccustomed to the stimulant of praise and missed it as the topermisses his wine, so that which had once been a pleasure to himself andothers was fast becoming a burden and a disappointment.

The brief pause which followed his involuntary betrayal of discontentwas broken by Ruth, who exclaimed, with a girlish enthusiasm thatoverpowered girlish bashfulness,-- "I think all the novels are splendid! I hope you will write hundredsmore, and I shall live to read 'em.

" "Bravo, my gentle champion! I promise that I will write one more atleast, and have a heroine in it whom your mother will both admire andlove," answered Randal, surprised to find how grateful he was for thegirl's approval, and how rapidly his trained fancy began to paint thebackground on which he hoped to copy this fresh, human daisy.

Abashed by her involuntary outburst, Ruth tried to efface herselfbehind Saul's broad shoulder, and he brought the conversation back toits starting-point by saying in a tone of the most sincere interest,-- "Speaking of the serial, I am very anxious to know how your hero comesout.

He is a fine fellow, and I can't decide whether he is going tospoil his life marrying that silly woman, or do something grand andgenerous, and not be made a fool of.

" "Upon my soul, I don't know myself.

It is very hard to find newfinales.

Can't you suggest something, Major? then I shall not beobliged to leave my story without an end, as people complain I amrather fond of doing.

" "Well, no, I don't think I've anything to offer.

Seems to me it isn'tthe sensational exploits that show the hero best, but some greatsacrifice quietly made by a common sort of man who is noble withoutknowing it.

I saw a good many such during the war, and often wish Icould write them down, for it is surprising how much courage, goodnessand real piety is stowed away in common folks ready to show when theright time comes.

" "Tell us one of them, and I'll bless you for a hint.

No one knows theanguish of an author's spirit when he can't ring down the curtain onan effective tableau," said Randal, with a glance at his friends toask their aid in eliciting an anecdote or reminiscence.

"Tell about the splendid fellow who held the bridge, like Horatius,till help came up.

That was a thrilling story, I assure you," answeredSophie, with an inviting smile.

But Saul would not be his own hero, and said briefly: "Any man can be brave when the battle-fever is on him, and it onlytakes a little physical courage to dash ahead.

" He paused a moment,with his eyes on the snowy landscape without, where twilight wasdeepening; then, as if constrained by the memory that winter sceneevoked, he slowly continued,-- "One of the bravest things I ever knew was done by a poor fellow whohas been a hero to me ever since, though I only met him that night.

It was after one of the big battles of that last winter, and I wasknocked over with a broken leg and two or three bullets here andthere.

Night was coming on, snow falling, and a sharp wind blew overthe field where a lot of us lay, dead and alive, waiting for theambulance to come and pick us up.

There was skirmishing going on notfar off, and our prospects were rather poor between frost and fire.

Iwas calculating how I'd manage, when I found two poor chaps close bywho were worse off, so I braced up and did what I could for them.

Onehad an arm blown away, and kept up a dreadful groaning.

The otherwas shot bad, and bleeding to death for want of help, but nevercomplained.

He was nearest, and I liked his pluck, for he spokecheerful and made me ashamed to growl.

Such times make dreadful brutesof men if they haven't something to hold on to, and all three of uswere most wild with pain and cold and hunger, for we'd fought all dayfasting, when we heard a rumble in the road below, and saw lanternsbobbing round.

That meant life to us, and we all tried to holler; twoof us were pretty faint, but I managed a good yell, and they heard it.

"'Room for one more.

Hard luck, old boys, but we are full and mustsave the worst wounded first.

Take a drink, and hold on till we comeback,' says one of them with the stretcher.

"'Here's the one to go,' I says, pointin' out my man, for I saw by thelight that he was hard hit.

"'No, that one.

He's got more chances than I, or this one; he's youngand got a mother; I'll wait,' said the good feller, touchin' my arm,for he 'd heard me mutterin' to myself about this dear old lady.

Wealways want mother when we are down, you know.

" Saul's eyes turned to the beloved face with a glance of tenderestaffection, and Aunt Plumy answered with a dismal groan at therecollection of his need that night, and her absence.

"Well, to be short, the groaning chap was taken, and my man left.

Iwas mad, but there was no time for talk, and the selfish one went offand left that poor feller to run his one chance.

I had my rifle, andguessed I could hobble up to use it if need be; so we settled back towait without much hope of help, everything being in a muddle.

And waitwe did till morning, for that ambulance did not come back till nextday, when most of us were past needing it.

"I'll never forget that night.

I dream it all over again as plain asif it was real.

Snow, cold, darkness, hunger, thirst, pain, and allround us cries and cursing growing less and less, till at last onlythe wind went moaning over that meadow.

It was awful! so lonesome,helpless, and seemingly God-forsaken.

Hour after hour we lay thereside by side under one coat, waiting to be saved or die, for the windgrew strong and we grew weak.

" Saul drew a long breath, and held his hands to the fire as if he feltagain the sharp suffering of that night.

"And the man?" asked Emily, softly, as if reluctant to break thesilence.

"He was a man! In times like that men talk like brothers and showwhat they are.

Lying there, slowly freezing, Joe Cummings toldme about his wife and babies, his old folks waiting for him, alldepending on him, yet all ready to give him up when he was needed.

Aplain man, but honest and true, and loving as a woman; I soon saw thatas he went on talking, half to me and half to himself, for sometimeshe wandered a little toward the end.

I've read books, heard sermons,and seen good folks, but nothing ever came so close or did me so muchgood as seeing this man die.

He had one chance and gave it cheerfully.

He longed for those he loved, and let 'em go with a good-by theycouldn't hear.

He suffered all the pains we most shrink from without amurmur, and kept my heart warm while his own was growing cold.

It'sno use trying to tell that part of it; but I heard prayers that nightthat meant something, and I saw how faith could hold a soul up wheneverything was gone but God.

" Saul stopped there with a sudden huskiness in his deep voice, and whenhe went on it was in the tone of one who speaks of a dear friend.

"Joe grew still by and by, and I thought he was asleep, for I felt hisbreath when I tucked him up, and his hand held on to mine.

The coldsort of numbed me, and I dropped off, too weak and stupid to think orfeel.

I never should have waked up if it hadn't been for Joe.

When Icame to, it was morning, and I thought I was dead, for all I could seewas that great field of white mounds, like graves, and a splendid skyabove.

Then I looked for Joe, remembering; but he had put my coat backover me, and lay stiff and still under the snow that covered him likea shroud, all except his face.

A bit of my cape had blown over it, andwhen I took it off and the sun shone on his dead face, I declare toyou it was so full of heavenly peace I felt as if that common man hadbeen glorified by God's light, and rewarded by God's 'Well done.

'That's all.

" No one spoke for a moment, while the women wiped their eyes, and Sauldropped his as if to hide something softer than tears.

"It was very noble, very touching.

And you? how did you get off atlast?" asked Randal, with real admiration and respect in his usuallylanguid face.

"Crawled off," answered Saul, relapsing into his former brevity ofspeech.

"Why not before, and save yourself all that misery?" "Couldn't leave Joe.

" "Ah, I see; there were two heroes that night.

" "Dozens, I've no doubt.

Those were times that made heroes of men, andwomen, too.

" "Tell us more;" begged Emily, looking up with an expression none ofher admirers ever brought to her face by their softest compliments orwiliest gossip.

"I've done my part.

It's Mr.

Randal's turn now;" and Saul drew himselfout of the ruddy circle of firelight, as if ashamed of the prominentpart he was playing.

Sophie and her friend had often heard Randal talk, for he was anaccomplished raconteur, but that night he exerted himself, and wasunusually brilliant and entertaining, as if upon his mettle.

TheBassets were charmed.

They sat late and were very merry, forAunt Plumy got up a little supper for them, and her cider was asexhilarating as champagne.

When they parted for the night and Sophiekissed her aunt, Emily did the same, saying heartily,-- "It seems as if I'd known you all my life, and this is certainly themost enchanting old place that ever was.

" "Glad you like it, dear.

But it ain't all fun, as you'll find outto-morrow when you go to work, for Sophie says you must," answeredMrs.

Basset, as her guests trooped away, rashly promising to likeeverything.

They found it difficult to keep their word when they were called athalf past six next morning.

Their rooms were warm, however, andthey managed to scramble down in time for breakfast, guided by thefragrance of coffee and Aunt Plumy's shrill voice singing the good oldhymn-- An open fire blazed on the hearth, for the cooking was done inthe lean-to, and the spacious, sunny kitchen was kept in all itsold-fashioned perfection, with the wooden settle in a warm nook, thetall clock behind the door, copper and pewter utensils shining on thedresser, old china in the corner closet and a little spinning wheelrescued from the garret by Sophie to adorn the deep window, full ofscarlet geraniums, Christmas roses, and white chrysanthemums.

The young lady, in a checked apron and mob-cap, greeted her friendswith a dish of buckwheats in one hand, and a pair of cheeks thatproved she had been learning to fry these delectable cakes.

"You do 'keep it up' in earnest, upon my word; and very becoming itis, dear.

But won't you ruin your complexion and roughen your hands ifyou do so much of this new fancy-work?" asked Emily, much amazed atthis novel freak.

"I like it, and really believe I've found my proper sphere at last.

Domestic life seems so pleasant to me that I feel as if I'd betterkeep it up for the rest of my life," answered Sophie, making a prettypicture of herself as she cut great slices of brown bread, with theearly sunshine touching her happy face.

"The charming Miss Vaughan in the role of a farmer's wife.

I find itdifficult to imagine, and shrink from the thought of the wide-spreaddismay such a fate will produce among her adorers," added Randal, ashe basked in the glow of the hospitable fire.

"She might do worse; but come to breakfast and do honor to myhandiwork," said Sophie, thinking of her worn-out millionnaire, andrather nettled by the satiric smile on Randal's lips.

"What an appetite early rising gives one.

I feel equal to almostanything, so let me help wash cups," said Emily, with unusual energy,when the hearty meal was over and Sophie began to pick up the dishesas if it was her usual work.

Ruth went to the window to water the flowers, and Randal followed tomake himself agreeable, remembering her defence of him last night.

He was used to admiration from feminine eyes, and flattery from softlips, but found something new and charming in the innocent delightwhich showed itself at his approach in blushes more eloquent thanwords, and shy glances from eyes full of hero-worship.

"I hope you are going to spare me a posy for to-morrow night, sinceI can be fine in no other way to do honor to the dance Miss Sophieproposes for us," he said, leaning in the bay window to look downon the little girl, with the devoted air he usually wore for prettywomen.

"Anything you like! I should be so glad to have you wear my flowers.

There will be enough for all, and I've nothing else to give to peoplewho have made me as happy as cousin Sophie and you," answered Ruth,half drowning her great calla as she spoke with grateful warmth.

"You must make her happy by accepting the invitation to go home withher which I heard given last night.

A peep at the world would do yougood, and be a pleasant change, I think.

" "Oh, very pleasant! but would it do me good?" and Ruth looked up withsudden seriousness in her blue eyes, as a child questions an elder,eager, yet wistful.

"Why not?" asked Randal, wondering at the hesitation.

"I might grow discontented with things here if I saw splendid housesand fine people.

I am very happy now, and it would break my heart tolose that happiness, or ever learn to be ashamed of home.

" "But don't you long for more pleasure, new scenes and other friendsthan these?" asked the man, touched by the little creature's loyaltyto the things she knew and loved.

"Very often, but mother says when I'm ready they will come, so I waitand try not to be impatient.

" But Ruth's eyes looked out over thegreen leaves as if the longing was very strong within her to see moreof the unknown world lying beyond the mountains that hemmed her in.

"It is natural for birds to hop out of the nest, so I shall expect tosee you over there before long, and ask you how you enjoy your firstflight," said Randal, in a paternal tone that had a curious effect onRuth.

To his surprise, she laughed, then blushed like one of her own roses,and answered with a demure dignity that was very pretty to see.

"I intend to hop soon, but it won't be a very long flight or very farfrom mother.

She can't spare me, and nobody in the world can fill herplace to me.

" "Bless the child, does she think I'm going to make love to her,"thought Randal, much amused, but quite mistaken.

Wiser women hadthought so when he assumed the caressing air with which he beguiledthem into the little revelations of character he liked to use, as thesouth wind makes flowers open their hearts to give up their odor, thenleaves them to carry it elsewhere, the more welcome for the stolensweetness.

"Perhaps you are right.

The maternal wing is a safe shelter forconfiding little souls like you, Miss Ruth.

You will be as comfortablehere as your flowers in this sunny window," he said, carelesslypinching geranium leaves, and ruffling the roses till the pink petalsof the largest fluttered to the floor.

As if she instinctively felt and resented something in the man whichhis act symbolized, the girl answered quietly, as she went on with herwork, "Yes, if the frost does not touch me, or careless people spoilme too soon.

" Before Randal could reply Aunt Plumy approached like a maternal henwho sees her chicken in danger.

"Saul is goin' to haul wood after he's done his chores, mebbe you'dlike to go along? The view is good, the roads well broke, and the dayuncommon fine.

" "Thanks; it will be delightful, I dare say," politely responded thelion, with a secret shudder at the idea of a rural promenade at 8 A.

in the winter.

"Come on, then; we'll feed the stock, and then I'll show you how toyoke oxen," said Saul, with a twinkle in his eye as he led the way,when his new aide had muffled himself up as if for a polar voyage.

"Now, that's too bad of Saul! He did it on purpose, just to pleaseyou, Sophie," cried Ruth presently, and the girls ran to the window tobehold Randal bravely following his host with a pail of pigs' food ineach hand, and an expression of resigned disgust upon his aristocraticface.

"To what base uses may we come," quoted Emily, as they all nodded andsmiled upon the victim as he looked back from the barn-yard, where hewas clamorously welcomed by his new charges.

"It is rather a shock at first, but it will do him good, and Saulwon't be too hard upon him, I'm sure," said Sophie, going back to herwork, while Ruth turned her best buds to the sun that they might beready for a peace-offering to-morrow.

There was a merry clatter in the big kitchen for an hour; then AuntPlumy and her daughter shut themselves up in the pantry to performsome culinary rites, and the young ladies went to inspect certainantique costumes laid forth in Sophie's room.

"You see, Em, I thought it would be appropriate to the house andseason to have an old-fashioned dance.

Aunt has quantities of ancientfinery stowed away, for great-grandfather Basset was a fine oldgentleman and his family lived in state.

Take your choice of thecrimson, blue or silver-gray damask.

Ruth is to wear the worked muslinand quilted white satin skirt, with that coquettish hat.

" "Being dark, I'll take the red and trim it up with this fine lace.

You must wear the blue and primrose, with the distracting high-heeledshoes.

Have you any suits for the men?" asked Emily, throwing herselfat once into the all-absorbing matter of costume.

"A claret velvet coat and vest, silk stockings, cocked hat andsnuff-box for Randal.

Nothing large enough for Saul, so he must wearhis uniform.

Won't Aunt Plumy be superb in this plum-colored satin andimmense cap?" A delightful morning was spent in adapting the faded finery of thepast to the blooming beauty of the present, and time and tongues flewtill the toot of a horn called them down to dinner.

The girls were amazed to see Randal come whistling up the road withhis trousers tucked into his boots, blue mittens on his hands, and anunusual amount of energy in his whole figure, as he drove the oxen,while Saul laughed at his vain attempts to guide the bewilderedbeasts.

"It's immense! The view from the hill is well worth seeing, for thesnow glorifies the landscape and reminds one of Switzerland.

I'm goingto make a sketch of it this afternoon; better come and enjoy thedelicious freshness, young ladies.

" Randal was eating with such an appetite that he did not see theglances the girls exchanged as they promised to go.

"Bring home some more winter-green, I want things to be real nice, andwe haven't enough for the kitchen," said Ruth, dimpling with girlishdelight as she imagined herself dancing under the green garlands inher grandmother's wedding gown.

It was very lovely on the hill, for far as the eye could reach lay thewintry landscape sparkling with the brief beauty of sunshine on virginsnow.

Pines sighed overhead, hardy birds flitted to and fro, and inall the trodden spots rose the little spires of evergreen ready forits Christmas duty.

Deeper in the wood sounded the measured ring ofaxes, the crash of falling trees, while the red shirts of the menadded color to the scene, and a fresh wind brought the aromatic breathof newly cloven hemlock and pine.

"How beautiful it is! I never knew before what winter woods were like.

Did you, Sophie?" asked Emily, sitting on a stump to enjoy the novelpleasure at her ease.

"I've found out lately; Saul lets me come as often as I like, and thisfine air seems to make a new creature of me," answered Sophie, lookingabout her with sparkling eyes, as if this was a kingdom where shereigned supreme.

"Something is making a new creature of you, that is very evident.

Ihaven't yet discovered whether it is the air or some magic herb amongthat green stuff you are gathering so diligently;" and Emily laughedto see the color deepen beautifully in her friend's half-averted face.

"Scarlet is the only wear just now, I find.

If we are lost like babesin the woods there are plenty of redbreasts to cover us with leaves,"and Randal joined Emily's laugh, with a glance at Saul, who had justpulled his coat off.

"You wanted to see this tree go down, so stand from under and I'llshow you how it's done," said the farmer, taking up his axe, notunwilling to gratify his guests and display his manly accomplishmentsat the same time.

It was a fine sight, the stalwart man swinging his axe withmagnificent strength and skill, each blow sending a thrill through thestately tree, till its heart was reached and it tottered to its fall.

Never pausing for breath Saul shook his yellow mane out of his eyes,and hewed away, while the drops stood on his forehead and his armached, as bent on distinguishing himself as if he had been a knighttilting against his rival for his lady's favor.

"I don't know which to admire most, the man or his muscle.

One doesn'toften see such vigor, size and comeliness in these degenerate days,"said Randal, mentally booking the fine figure in the red shirt.

"I think we have discovered a rough diamond.

I only wonder if Sophieis going to try and polish it," answered Emily, glancing at herfriend, who stood a little apart, watching the rise and fall of theaxe as intently as if her fate depended on it.

Down rushed the tree at last, and, leaving them to examine a crow'snest in its branches, Saul went off to his men, as if he found thepraises of his prowess rather too much for him.

Randal fell to sketching, the girls to their garland-making, and fora little while the sunny woodland nook was full of lively chat andpleasant laughter, for the air exhilarated them all like wine.

Suddenly a man came running from the wood, pale and anxious, saying,as he hastened by for help, "Blasted tree fell on him! Bleed to deathbefore the doctor comes!" "Who? who?" cried the startled trio.

But the man ran on, with some breathless reply, in which only a namewas audible--"Basset.

" "The deuce it is!" and Randal dropped his pencil, while the girlssprang up in dismay.

Then, with one impulse, they hastened to thedistant group, half visible behind the fallen trees and corded wood.

Sophie was there first, and forcing her way through the little crowdof men, saw a red-shirted figure on the ground, crushed and bleeding,and threw herself down beside it with a cry that pierced the hearts ofthose who heard it.

In the act she saw it was not Saul, and covered her bewildered face asif to hide its joy.

A strong arm lifted her, and the familiar voicesaid cheeringly,-- "I'm all right, dear.

Poor Bruce is hurt, but we've sent for help.

Better go right home and forget all about it.

" "Yes, I will, if I can do nothing;" and Sophie meekly returned to herfriends who stood outside the circle over which Saul's head towered,assuring them of his safety.

Hoping they had not seen her agitation, she led Emily away, leavingRandal to give what aid he could and bring them news of the poorwood-chopper's state.

Aunt Plumy produced the "camphire" the moment she saw Sophie's paleface, and made her lie down, while the brave old lady trudged brisklyoff with bandages and brandy to the scene of action.

On her return shebrought comfortable news of the man, so the little flurry blew overand was forgotten by all but Sophie, who remained pale and quiet allthe evening, tying evergreen as if her life depended on it.

"A good night's sleep will set her up.

She ain't used to such things,dear child, and needs cossetin'," said Aunt Plumy, purring over heruntil she was in her bed, with a hot stone at her feet and a bowl ofherb tea to quiet her nerves.

An hour later when Emily went up, she peeped in to see if Sophie wassleeping nicely, and was surprised to find the invalid wrapped in adressing-gown writing busily.

"Last will and testament, or sudden inspiration, dear? How are you?faint or feverish, delirious or in the dumps! Saul looks so anxious,and Mrs.

Basset hushes us all up so, I came to bed, leaving Randal toentertain Ruth.

" As she spoke Emily saw the papers disappear in a portfolio, and Sophierose with a yawn.

"I was writing letters, but I'm sleepy now.

Quite over my foolishfright, thank you.

Go and get your beauty sleep that you may dazzlethe natives to-morrow.

" "So glad, good night;" and Emily went away, saying to herself,"Something is going on, and I must find out what it is before I leave.

Sophie can't blind me.

" But Sophie did all the next day, being delightfully gay at the dinner,and devoting herself to the young minister who was invited to meetthe distinguished novelist, and evidently being afraid of him, gladlybasked in the smiles of his charming neighbor.

A dashing sleigh-rideoccupied the afternoon, and then great was the fun and excitement overthe costumes.

Aunt Plumy laughed till the tears rolled down her cheeks as the girlscompressed her into the plum-colored gown with its short waist,leg-of-mutton sleeves, and narrow skirt.

But a worked scarf hid alldeficiencies, and the towering cap struck awe into the soul of themost frivolous observer.

"Keep an eye on me, girls, for I shall certainly split somewheres orlose my head-piece off when I'm trottin' round.

What would my blessedmother say if she could see me rigged out in her best things?" andwith a smile and a sigh the old lady departed to look after "theboys," and see that the supper was all right.

Three prettier damsels never tripped down the wide staircase than thebrilliant brunette in crimson brocade, the pensive blonde in blue, orthe rosy little bride in old muslin and white satin.

A gallant court gentleman met them in the hall with a superb bow,and escorted them to the parlor, where Grandma Basset's ghost wasdiscovered dancing with a modern major in full uniform.

Mutual admiration and many compliments followed, till other ancientladies and gentlemen arrived in all manner of queer costumes, and theold house seemed to wake from its humdrum quietude to sudden music andmerriment, as if a past generation had returned to keep its Christmasthere.

The village fiddler soon struck up the good old tunes, and then thestrangers saw dancing that filled them with mingled mirth and envy; itwas so droll, yet so hearty.

The young men, unusually awkward in theirgrandfathers' knee-breeches, flapping vests, and swallow-tail coats,footed it bravely with the buxom girls who were the prettier for theirquaintness, and danced with such vigor that their high combs stoodawry, their furbelows waved wildly, and their cheeks were as red astheir breast-knots, or hose.

It was impossible to stand still, and one after the other the cityfolk yielded to the spell, Randal leading off with Ruth, Sophie sweptaway by Saul, and Emily being taken possession of by a young giant ofeighteen, who spun her around with a boyish impetuosity that took herbreath away.

Even Aunt Plumy was discovered jigging it alone in thepantry, as if the music was too much for her, and the plates andglasses jingled gaily on the shelves in time to Money Musk andFishers' Hornpipe.

A pause came at last, however, and fans fluttered, heated brows werewiped, jokes were made, lovers exchanged confidences, and every nookand corner held a man and maid carrying on the sweet game which isnever out of fashion.

There was a glitter of gold lace in the backentry, and a train of blue and primrose shone in the dim light.

Therewas a richer crimson than that of the geraniums in the deep window,and a dainty shoe tapped the bare floor impatiently as the brilliantblack eyes looked everywhere for the court gentleman, while theirowner listened to the gruff prattle of an enamored boy.

But in theupper hall walked a little white ghost as if waiting for some shadowycompanion, and when a dark form appeared ran to take its arm, saying,in a tone of soft satisfaction,-- "I was so afraid you wouldn't come!" "Why did you leave me, Ruth?" answered a manly voice in a tone ofsurprise, though the small hand slipping from the velvet coat-sleevewas replaced as if it was pleasant to feel it there.

A pause, and then the other voice answered demurely,-- "Because I was afraid my head would be turned by the fine things youwere saying.

" "It is impossible to help saying what one feels to such an artlesslittle creature as you are.

It does me good to admire anything sofresh and sweet, and won't harm you.

" "It might if--" "If what, my daisy?" "I believed it," and a laugh seemed to finish the broken sentencebetter than the words.

"You may, Ruth, for I do sincerely admire the most genuine girl I haveseen for a long time.

And walking here with you in your bridal white Iwas just asking myself if I should not be a happier man with a homeof my own and a little wife hanging on my arm than drifting about theworld as I do now with only myself to care for.

" "I know you would!" and Ruth spoke so earnestly that Randal was bothtouched and startled, fearing he had ventured too far in a mood ofunwonted sentiment, born of the romance of the hour and the sweetfrankness of his companion.

"Then you don't think it would be rash for some sweet woman to take mein hand and make me happy, since fame is a failure?" "Oh, no; it would be easy work if she loved you.

I know some one--if Ionly dared to tell her name.

" "Upon my soul, this is cool," and Randal looked down, wondering if theaudacious lady on his arm could be shy Ruth.

If he had seen the malicious merriment in her eyes he would have beenmore humiliated still, but they were modestly averted, and the faceunder the little hat was full of a soft agitation rather dangerouseven to a man of the world.

"She is a captivating little creature, but it is too soon for anythingbut a mild flirtation.

I must delay further innocent revelations or Ishall do something rash.

" While making this excellent resolution Randal had been pressing thehand upon his arm and gently pacing down the dimly lighted hallwith the sound of music in his ears, Ruth's sweetest roses in hisbutton-hole, and a loving little girl beside him, as he thought.

"You shall tell me by and by when we are in town.

I am sure you willcome, and meanwhile don't forget me.

" "I am going in the spring, but I shall not be with Sophie," answeredRuth, in a whisper.

"With whom then? I shall long to see you.

" "With my husband.

I am to be married in May.

" "The deuce you are!" escaped Randal, as he stopped short to stare athis companion, sure she was not in earnest.

But she was, for as he looked the sound of steps coming up the backstairs made her whole face flush and brighten with the unmistakableglow of happy love, and she completed Randal's astonishment by runninginto the arms of the young minister, saying with an irrepressiblelaugh, "Oh, John, why didn't you come before?" The court gentleman was all right in a moment, and the coolest ofthe three as he offered his congratulations and gracefully retired,leaving the lovers to enjoy the tryst he had delayed.

But as he wentdown stairs his brows were knit, and he slapped the broad railingsmartly with his cocked hat as if some irritation must find vent in amore energetic way than merely saying, "Confound the little baggage!"under his breath.

Such an amazing supper came from Aunt Plumy's big pantry that the cityguests could not eat for laughing at the queer dishes circulatingthrough the rooms, and copiously partaken of by the hearty youngfolks.

Doughnuts and cheese, pie and pickles, cider and tea, baked beans andcustards, cake and cold turkey, bread and butter, plum pudding andFrench bonbons, Sophie's contribution.

"May I offer you the native delicacies, and share your plate? Bothare very good, but the china has run short, and after such vigorousexercise as you have had you must need refreshment.

I'm sure I do!"said Randal, bowing before Emily with a great blue platter laden withtwo doughnuts, two wedges of pumpkin pie and two spoons.

The smile with which she welcomed him, the alacrity with which shemade room beside her and seemed to enjoy the supper he brought, was sosoothing to his ruffled spirit that he soon began to feel that thereis no friend like an old friend, that it would not be difficult toname a sweet woman who would take him in hand and would make him happyif he cared to ask her, and he began to think he would by and by, itwas so pleasant to sit in that green corner with waves of crimsonbrocade flowing over his feet, and a fine face softening beautifullyunder his eyes.

The supper was not romantic, but the situation was, and Emily foundthat pie ambrosial food eaten with the man she loved, whose eyestalked more eloquently than the tongue just then busy with a doughnut.

Ruth kept away, but glanced at them as she served her company, and herown happy experience helped her to see that all was going well in thatquarter.

Saul and Sophie emerged from the back entry with shiningcountenances, but carefully avoided each other for the rest of theevening.

No one observed this but Aunt Plumy from the recesses of herpantry, and she folded her hands as if well content, as she murmuredfervently over a pan full of crullers, "Bless the dears! Now I can diehappy.

" Every one thought Sophie's old-fashioned dress immensely becoming, andseveral of his former men said to Saul with blunt admiration, "Major,you look to-night as you used to after we'd gained a big battle.

" "I feel as if I had," answered the splendid Major, with eyes muchbrighter than his buttons, and a heart under them infinitely prouderthan when he was promoted on the field of honor, for his Waterloo waswon.

There was more dancing, followed by games, in which Aunt Plumy shonepre-eminent, for the supper was off her mind and she could enjoyherself.

There were shouts of merriment as the blithe old lady twirledthe platter, hunted the squirrel, and went to Jerusalem like a girl ofsixteen; her cap in a ruinous condition, and every seam of the purpledress straining like sails in a gale.

It was great fun, but atmidnight it came to an end, and the young folks, still bubbling overwith innocent jollity, went jingling away along the snowy hills,unanimously pronouncing Mrs.

Basset's party the best of the season.

"Never had such a good time in my life!" exclaimed Sophie, as thefamily stood together in the kitchen where the candles among thewreaths were going out, and the floor was strewn with wrecks of pastjoy.

"I'm proper glad, dear.

Now you all go to bed and lay as late as youlike to-morrow.

I'm so kinder worked up I couldn't sleep, so Saul andme will put things to rights without a mite of noise to disturb you;"and Aunt Plumy sent them off with a smile that was a benediction,Sophie thought.

"The dear old soul speaks as if midnight was an unheard-of hour forChristians to be up.

What would she say if she knew how we seldom goto bed till dawn in the ball season? I'm so wide awake I've half amind to pack a little.

Randal must go at two, he says, and we shallwant his escort," said Emily, as the girls laid away their brocades inthe press in Sophie's room.

"I'm not going.

Aunt can't spare me, and there is nothing to go foryet," answered Sophie, beginning to take the white chrysanthemums outof her pretty hair.

"My dear child, you will die of ennui up here.

Very nice for a weekor so, but frightful for a winter.

We are going to be very gay, andcannot get on without you," cried Emily dismayed at the suggestion.

"You will have to, for I'm not coming.

I am very happy here, and sotired of the frivolous life I lead in town, that I have decided totry a better one," and Sophie's mirror reflected a face full of thesweetest content.

"Have you lost your mind? experienced religion? or any other dreadfulthing? You always were odd, but this last freak is the strangest ofall.

What will your guardian say, and the world?" added Emily in theawe-stricken tone of one who stood in fear of the omnipotent Mrs.

Grundy.

"Guardy will be glad to be rid of me, and I don't care that for theworld," cried Sophie, snapping her fingers with a joyful sort ofrecklessness which completed Emily's bewilderment.

"But Mr.

Hammond? Are you going to throw away millions, lose yourchance of making the best match in the city, and driving the girls ofour set out of their wits with envy?" Sophie laughed at her friend's despairing cry, and turning round saidquietly,-- "I wrote to Mr.

Hammond last night, and this evening received myreward for being an honest girl.

Saul and I are to be married in thespring when Ruth is.

" Emily fell prone upon the bed as if the announcement was too muchfor her, but was up again in an instant to declare with propheticsolemnity,-- "I knew something was going on, but hoped to get you away before youwere lost.

Sophie, you will repent.

Be warned, and forget this saddelusion.

" "Too late for that.

The pang I suffered yesterday when I thought Saulwas dead showed me how well I loved him.

To-night he asked me to stay,and no power in the world can part us.

Oh! Emily, it is all so sweet,so beautiful, that everything is possible, and I know I shall behappy in this dear old home, full of love and peace and honest hearts.

I only hope you may find as true and tender a man to live for as mySaul.

" Sophie's face was more eloquent than her fervent words, and Emilybeautifully illustrated the inconsistency of her sex by suddenlyembracing her friend, with the incoherent exclamation, "I think Ihave, dear! Your brave Saul is worth a dozen old Hammonds, and I dobelieve you are right.

" It is unnecessary to tell how, as if drawn by the irresistible magicof sympathy, Ruth and her mother crept in one by one to join themidnight conference and add their smiles and tears, tender hopes andproud delight to the joys of that memorable hour.

Nor how Saul, unableto sleep, mounted guard below, and meeting Randal prowling down tosoothe his nerves with a surreptitious cigar found it impossible tohelp confiding to his attentive ear the happiness that would breakbounds and overflow in unusual eloquence.

Peace fell upon the old house at last, and all slept as if some magicherb had touched their eyelids, bringing blissful dreams and a gladawakening.

"Can't we persuade you to come with us, Miss Sophie?" asked Randalnext day, as they made their adieux.

"I'm under orders now, and dare not disobey my superior officer,"answered Sophie, handing her Major his driving gloves, with a lookwhich plainly showed that she had joined the great army of devotedwomen who enlist for life and ask no pay but love.

"I shall depend on being invited to your wedding, then, and yours,too, Miss Ruth," added Randal, shaking hands with "the littlebaggage," as if he had quite forgiven her mockery and forgotten hisown brief lapse into sentiment.

Before she could reply Aunt Plumy said, in a tone of calm conviction,that made them all laugh, and some of them look conscious,-- "Spring is a good time for weddin's, and I shouldn't wonder ef therewas quite a number.

" "Nor I;" and Saul and Sophie smiled at one another as they saw howcarefully Randal arranged Emily's wraps.

