A rich farmer was one day standing in his yard inspecting his fields and gardens. The corn was growing up vigorously and the fruit-trees were heavily laden with fruit. The grain of the year before still lay in such immense heaps on the floors that the rafters could hardly bear it. Then he went into the stable, where were well-fed oxen, fat cows, and horses bright as looking-glass. At length he went back into his sitting-room, and cast a glance at the iron chest in which his money lay.\n\n\tWhilst he was thus standing surveying his riches, all at once there was a loud knock close by him. The knock was not at the door of his room, but at the door of his heart. It opened, and he heard a voice which said to him,  The heart was not slow in answering, \n\n\tWhen he was aware of this answer he was greatly alarmed, his knees began to tremble, and he was forced to sit down.\n\n\tThen there was another knock, but the knock was at the door of his room. It was his neighbour, a poor man who had a number of children whom he could no longer satisfy with food.  thought the poor man,  He said to the rich man,  The rich man looked at him long, and then the first sunbeam of mercy began to melt away a drop of the ice of greediness.  he answered,   said the poor man.  The peasant was disturbed in his mind at this request, but in the need in which he was, he would have consented to anything; he accepted, therefore, and carried the corn home with him.\n\n\tIt seemed as if the rich man had foreseen what was about to happen, for when three days were gone by, he suddenly dropped down dead. No one knew exactly how it came to pass, but no one grieved for him. When he was buried, the poor man remembered his promise; he would willingly have been released from it, but he thought,  At nightfall he went into the churchyard, and seated himself on the grave-mound. Everything was quiet, only the moon appeared above the grave, and frequently an owl flew past and uttered her melancholy cry. When the sun rose, the poor man betook himself in safety to his home, and in the same manner the second night passed quietly by. On the evening of the third day he felt a strange uneasiness, it seemed to him that something was about to happen. When he went out he saw, by the churchyard-wall, a man whom he had never seen before. He was no longer young, had scars on his face, and his eyes looked sharply and eagerly around. He was entirely covered with an old cloak, and nothing was visible but his great riding-boots.  the peasant asked. \n\n\t he answered,   said the peasant, \n\n\t he replied,  The peasant agreed to this, and they seated themselves on the grave together.\n\n\tAll was quiet until midnight, when suddenly a shrill whistling was heard in the air, and the two watchers perceived the Evil One standing bodily before them.  cried he to them,   said the soldier, \n\n\tThe Devil thought to himself,  So he began to play a softer tune, and asked quite kindly, if they would not accept a bag of money, and go home with it?  answered the soldier, \n\n\t said the Devil,  When the Devil had vanished the soldier took his left boot off, and said,  He cut the sole off the boot, and put it in the high grass near the grave on the edge of a hole that was half over-grown.  said he; \n\n\tThey both sat down and waited, and it was not long before the Devil returned with a small bag of gold in his hand.  said the soldier, raising up the boot a little, \n\n\tThe Black One shook out all that was in the bag; the gold fell through, and the boot remained empty.  cried the soldier,  The Devil shook his head, went, and in an hour's time came with a much larger bag under his arm.  cried the soldier,  The gold clinked as it fell, but the boot remained empty. The Devil looked in himself with his burning eyes, and convinced himself of the truth.  cried he, and made a wry face.  replied the soldier,  The Wicked One went off again. This time he stayed away longer, and when at length he appeared he was panting under the weight of a sack which lay on his shoulders. He emptied it into the boot, which was just as far from being filled as before. He became furious, and was just going to tear the boot out of the soldier's hands, but at that moment the first ray of the rising sun broke forth from the sky, and the Evil Spirit fled away with loud shrieks. The poor soul was saved.\n\n\tThe peasant wished to divide the gold, but the soldier said, \n\n\t10                