A Fox that had been caught in a trap, succeeded at last, aftermuch painful tugging, in getting away. But he had to leave hisbeautiful bushy tail behind him. For a long time he kept away from the other Foxes, for he knewwell enough that they would all make fun of him and crack jokesand laugh behind his back. But it was hard for him to live alone,and at last he thought of a plan that would perhaps help him outof his trouble. He called a meeting of all the Foxes, saying that he hadsomething of great importance to tell the tribe. When they were all gathered together, the Fox Without a Tail gotup and made a long speech about those Foxes who had come to harmbecause of their tails. This one had been caught by hounds when his tail had becomeentangled in the hedge. That one had not been able to run fastenough because of the weight of his brush. Besides, it was wellknown, he said, that men hunt Foxes simply for their tails, whichthey cut off as prizes of the hunt. With such proof of the dangerand uselessness of having a tail, said Master Fox, he wouldadvise every Fox to cut it off, if he valued life and safety. When he had finished talking, an old Fox arose, and said,smiling: "Master Fox, kindly turn around for a moment, and you shall haveyour answer." When the poor Fox Without a Tail turned around, there arose sucha storm of jeers and hooting, that he saw how useless it was totry any longer to persuade the Foxes to part with their tails. Do not listen to the advice of him who seeks to lower you to hisown level. 8.9 Add  The Fox Without A Tail to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Frog And The MouseOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Fox Without A Tail to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Frog And The MouseOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Frog And The MouseOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Frog And The Mouse Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library