A very young Mouse, who had never seen anything of the world,almost came to grief the very first time he ventured out. Andthis is the story he told his mother about his adventures. "I was strolling along very peaceably when, just as I turned thecorner into the next yard, I saw two strange creatures. One ofthem had a very kind and gracious look, but the other was themost fearful monster you can imagine. You should have seen him. "On top of his head and in front of his neck hung pieces of rawred meat. He walked about restlessly, tearing up the ground withhis toes, and beating his arms savagely against his sides. Themoment he caught sight of me he opened his pointed mouth as if toswallow me, and then he let out a piercing roar that frightenedme almost to death." Can you guess who it was that our young Mouse was trying todescribe to his mother? It was nobody but the Barnyard Cock andthe first one the little Mouse had ever seen. "If it had not been for that terrible monster," the Mouse wenton, "I should have made the acquaintance of the pretty creature,who looked so good and gentle. He had thick, velvety fur, a meekface, and a look that was very modest, though his eyes werebright and shining. As he looked at me he waved his fine longtail and smiled. "I am sure he was just about to speak to me when the monster Ihave told you about let out a screaming yell, and I ran for mylife." "My son," said the Mother Mouse, "that gentle creature you sawwas none other than the Cat. Under his kindly appearance, hebears a grudge against every one of us. The other was nothing buta bird who wouldn't harm you in the least. As for the Cat, heeats us. So be thankful, my child, that you escaped with yourlife, and, as long as you live, never judge people by theirlooks." Do not trust alone to outward appearances. 9.1 Add  The Cat The Cock And The Young Mouse to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Cock And The FoxOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Cat The Cock And The Young Mouse to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Cock And The FoxOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Cock And The FoxOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Cock And The Fox Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library