A Wolf prowling near a village one evening met a Dog. It happenedto be a very lean and bony Dog, and Master Wolf would have turnedup his nose at such meager fare had he not been more hungry thanusual. So he began to edge toward the Dog, while the Dog backedaway. "Let me remind your lordship," said the Dog, his wordsinterrupted now and then as he dodged a snap of the Wolf's teeth,"how unpleasant it would be to eat me now. Look at my ribs. I amnothing but skin and bone. But let me tell you something inprivate. In a few days my master will give a wedding feast forhis only daughter. You can guess how fine and fat I will grow onthe scraps from the table. Then is the time to eat me." The Wolf could not help thinking how nice it would be to have afine fat Dog to eat instead of the scrawny object before him. Sohe went away pulling in his belt and promising to return. Some days later the Wolf came back for the promised feast. Hefound the Dog in his master's yard, and asked him to come out andbe eaten. "Sir," said the Dog, with a grin, "I shall be delighted to haveyou eat me. I'll be out as soon as the porter opens the door." But the "porter" was a huge Dog whom the Wolf knew by painfulexperience to be very unkind toward wolves. So he decided not towait and made off as fast as his legs could carry him. Do not depend on the promises of those whose interest it is todeceive you. Take what you can get when you can get it. 9.0 Add  The Wolf And The Lean Dog to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The LionOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Wolf And The Lean Dog to your library.Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The LionOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The LionOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the Aesop library, or . . . Read the next short story; The Wolf And The Lion Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library