There was once a poor widow who lived in a lonely cottage.

In front ofthe cottage was a garden wherein stood two rose-trees, one of which borewhite and the other red roses.

She had two children who were like the tworose-trees, and one was called Snow-white, and the other Rose-red.

Theywere as good and happy, as busy and cheerful as ever two children inthe world were, only Snow-white was more quiet and gentle than Rose-red.

Rose-red liked better to run about in the meadows and fields seekingflowers and catching butterflies; but Snow-white sat at home with hermother, and helped her with her house-work, or read to her when therewas nothing to do.

The two children were so fond of each another that they always held eachother by the hand when they went out together, and when Snow-white said,"We will not leave each other," Rose-red answered, "Never so long aswe live," and their mother would add, "What one has she must share withthe other." They often ran about the forest alone and gathered red berries, and nobeasts did them any harm, but came close to them trustfully.

The littlehare would eat a cabbage-leaf out of their hands, the roe grazed by theirside, the stag leapt merrily by them, and the birds sat still upon theboughs, and sang whatever they knew.

No mishap overtook them; if they had stayed too late in the forest,and night came on, they laid themselves down near one another upon themoss, and slept until morning came, and their mother knew this and hadno distress on their account.

Once when they had spent the night in the wood and the dawn had rousedthem, they saw a beautiful child in a shining white dress sitting neartheir bed.

He got up and looked quite kindly at them, but said nothingand went away into the forest.

And when they looked round they found thatthey had been sleeping quite close to a precipice, and would certainlyhave fallen into it in the darkness if they had gone only a few pacesfurther.

And their mother told them that it must have been the angelwho watches over good children.

Snow-white and Rose-red kept their mother's little cottage so neat thatit was a pleasure to look inside it.

In the summer Rose-red took careof the house, and every morning laid a wreath of flowers by her mother'sbed before she awoke, in which was a rose from each tree.

In the winterSnow-white lit the fire and hung the kettle on the wrekin.

The kettlewas of copper and shone like gold, so brightly was it polished.

In theevening, when the snowflakes fell, the mother said, "Go, Snow-white,and bolt the door," and then they sat round the hearth, and the mothertook her spectacles and read aloud out of a large book, and the twogirls listened as they sat and span.

And close by them lay a lamb uponthe floor, and behind them upon a perch sat a white dove with its headhidden beneath its wings.

One evening, as they were thus sitting comfortably together, some oneknocked at the door as if he wished to be let in.

The mother said,"Quick, Rose-red, open the door, it must be a traveller who is seekingshelter." Rose-red went and pushed back the bolt, thinking that it wasa poor man, but it was not; it was a bear that stretched his broad,black head within the door.

Rose-red screamed and sprang back, the lamb bleated, the dove fluttered,and Snow-white hid herself behind her mother's bed.

But the bear beganto speak and said, "Do not be afraid, I will do you no harm! I amhalf-frozen, and only want to warm myself a little beside you." "Poor bear," said the mother, "lie down by the fire, only take care thatyou do not burn your coat." Then she cried, "Snow-white, Rose-red, comeout, the bear will do you no harm, he means well." So they both cameout, and by-and-by the lamb and dove came nearer, and were not afraidof him.

The bear said, "Here, children, knock the snow out of my coat alittle;" so they brought the broom and swept the bear's hide clean; and hestretched himself by the fire and growled contentedly and comfortably.

Itwas not long before they grew quite at home, and played tricks with theirclumsy guest.

They tugged his hair with their hands, put their feet uponhis back and rolled him about, or they took a hazel-switch and beat him,and when he growled they laughed.

But the bear took it all in good part,only when they were too rough he called out, "Leave me alive, children,  "Snowy-white, Rosy-red,Will you beat your lover dead?" When it was bed-time, and the others went to bed, the mother said to thebear, "You can lie there by the hearth, and then you will be safe fromthe cold and the bad weather." As soon as day dawned the two childrenlet him out, and he trotted across the snow into the forest.

Henceforth the bear came every evening at the same time, laid himselfdown by the hearth, and let the children amuse themselves with him asmuch as they liked; and they got so used to him that the doors werenever fastened until their black friend had arrived.

When spring had come and all outside was green, the bear said one morningto Snow-white, "Now I must go away, and cannot come back for the wholesummer." "Where are you going, then, dear bear?" asked Snow-white.

"Imust go into the forest and guard my treasures from the wicked dwarfs.

Inthe winter, when the earth is frozen hard, they are obliged to stay belowand cannot work their way through; but now, when the sun has thawed andwarmed the earth, they break through it, and come out to pry and steal;and what once gets into their hands, and in their caves, does not easilysee daylight again." Snow-white was quite sorry for his going away, and as she unbolted thedoor for him, and the bear was hurrying out, he caught against the boltand a piece of his hairy coat was torn off, and it seemed to Snow-whiteas if she had seen gold shining through it, but she was not sure aboutit.

The bear ran away quickly, and was soon out of sight behind the trees.

A short time afterwards the mother sent her children into the forestto get fire-wood.

There they found a big tree which lay felled onthe ground, and close by the trunk something was jumping backwards andforwards in the grass, but they could not make out what it was.

When theycame nearer they saw a dwarf with an old withered face and a snow-whitebeard a yard long.

The end of the beard was caught in a crevice of thetree, and the little fellow was jumping backwards and forwards like adog tied to a rope, and did not know what to do.

He glared at the girls with his fiery red eyes and cried, "Why do youstand there? Can you not come here and help me?" "What are you aboutthere, little man?" asked Rose-red.

"You stupid, prying goose!" answeredthe dwarf; "I was going to split the tree to get a little wood forcooking.

The little bit of food that one of us wants gets burnt updirectly with thick logs; we do not swallow so much as you coarse,greedy folk.

I had just driven the wedge safely in, and everything wasgoing as I wished; but the wretched wood was too smooth and suddenlysprang asunder, and the tree closed so quickly that I could not pull outmy beautiful white beard; so now it is tight in and I cannot get away,and the silly, sleek, milk-faced things laugh! Ugh! how odious you are!" The children tried very hard, but they could not pull the beardout, it was caught too fast.

"I will run and fetch some one," saidRose-red.

"You senseless goose!" snarled the dwarf; "why should youfetch some one? You are already two too many for me; can you not thinkof something better?" "Don't be impatient," said Snow-white, "I willhelp you," and she pulled her scissors out of her pocket, and cut offthe end of the beard.

As soon as the dwarf felt himself free he laid hold of a bag which layamongst the roots of the tree, and which was full of gold, and liftedit up, grumbling to himself, "Uncouth people, to cut off a piece of myfine beard.

Bad luck to you!" and then he swung the bag upon his back,and went off without even once looking at the children.

Some time after that Snow-white and Rose-red went to catch a dish offish.

As they came near the brook they saw something like a largegrasshopper jumping towards the water, as if it were going to leapin.

They ran to it and found it was the dwarf.

"Where are you going?" saidRose-red; "you surely don't want to go into the water?" "I am notsuch a fool!" cried the dwarf; "don't you see that the accursed fishwants to pull me in?" The little man had been sitting there fishing,and unluckily the wind had twisted his beard with the fishing-line;just then a big fish bit, and the feeble creature had not strength topull it out; the fish kept the upper hand and pulled the dwarf towardshim.

He held on to all the reeds and rushes, but it was of little good,he was forced to follow the movements of the fish, and was in urgentdanger of being dragged into the water.

The girls came just in time; they held him fast and tried to free hisbeard from the line, but all in vain, beard and line were entangledfast together.

Nothing was left but to bring out the scissors and cutthe beard, whereby a small part of it was lost.

When the dwarf saw thathe screamed out, "Is that civil, you toad-stool, to disfigure one'sface? Was it not enough to clip off the end of my beard? Now you havecut off the best part of it.

I cannot let myself be seen by my people.

Iwish you had been made to run the soles off your shoes!" Then he tookout a sack of pearls which lay in the rushes, and without saying a wordmore he dragged it away and disappeared behind a stone.

It happened that soon afterwards the mother sent the two children tothe town to buy needles and thread, and laces and ribbons.

The roadled them across a heath upon which huge pieces of rock lay strewn hereand there.

Now they noticed a large bird hovering in the air, flyingslowly round and round above them; it sank lower and lower, and at lastsettled near a rock not far off.

Directly afterwards they heard a loud,piteous cry.

They ran up and saw with horror that the eagle had seizedtheir old acquaintance the dwarf, and was going to carry him off.

The children, full of pity, at once took tight hold of the little man,and pulled against the eagle so long that at last he let his booty go.

Assoon as the dwarf had recovered from his first fright he cried with hisshrill voice, "Could you not have done it more carefully! You draggedat my brown coat so that it is all torn and full of holes, you helplessclumsy creatures!" Then he took up a sack full of precious stones, andslipped away again under the rock into his hole.

The girls, who by thistime were used to his thanklessness, went on their way and did theirbusiness in the town.

As they crossed the heath again on their way home they surprised thedwarf, who had emptied out his bag of precious stones in a clean spot,and had not thought that anyone would come there so late.

The eveningsun shone upon the brilliant stones; they glittered and sparkled withall colors so beautifully that the children stood still and lookedat them.

"Why do you stand gaping there?" cried the dwarf, and hisashen-gray face became copper-red with rage.

He was going on with hisbad words when a loud growling was heard, and a black bear came trottingtowards them out of the forest.

The dwarf sprang up in a fright, but hecould not get to his cave, for the bear was already close.

Then in thedread of his heart he cried, "Dear Mr.

Bear, spare me, I will give youall my treasures; look, the beautiful jewels lying there! Grant me mylife; what do you want with such a slender little fellow as I? you wouldnot feel me between your teeth.

Come, take these two wicked girls, theyare tender morsels for you, fat as young quails; for mercy's sake eatthem!" The bear took no heed of his words, but gave the wicked creaturea single blow with his paw, and he did not move again.

The girls had run away, but the bear called to them, "Snow-white andRose-red, do not be afraid; wait, I will come with you." Then they knewhis voice and waited, and when he came up to them suddenly his bearskinfell off, and he stood there, a handsome man, clothed all in gold.

"I ama King's son," he said, "and I was bewitched by that wicked dwarf, whohad stolen my treasures; I have had to run about the forest as a savagebear until I was freed by his death.

Now he has got his well-deservedpunishment." Snow-white was married to him, and Rose-red to his brother, and theydivided between them the great treasure which the dwarf had gatheredtogether in his cave.

The old mother lived peacefully and happily withher children for many years.

She took the two rose-trees with her, andthey stood before her window, and every year bore the most beautifulroses, white and red.

8.4 Add  Snow-White and Rose-Red to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; St.

Joseph in the ForestOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  Snow-White and Rose-Red to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; St.

Joseph in the ForestOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; St.

Joseph in the ForestOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; St.

Joseph in the Forest Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library.

