There was once upon a time a miller who lived with his wife in greatcontentment.

They had money and land, and their prosperity increased yearby year more and more.

But ill-luck comes like a thief in the night,as their wealth had increased so did it again decrease, year by year,and at last the miller could hardly call the mill in which he lived, hisown.

He was in great distress, and when he lay down after his day's work,found no rest, but tossed about in his bed, full of care.

One morning herose before daybreak and went out into the open air, thinking that perhapsthere his heart might become lighter.

As he was stepping over the mill-dam the first sunbeam was just breaking forth, and he heard a ripplingsound in the pond.

He turned round and perceived a beautiful woman,rising slowly out of the water.

Her long hair, which she was holding offher shoulders with her soft hands, fell down on both sides, and coveredher white body.

He soon saw that she was the Nix of the Mill-pond, andin his fright did not know whether he should run away or stay where hewas.

But the nix made her sweet voice heard, called him by his name,and asked him why he was so sad? The miller was at first struck dumb,but when he heard her speak so kindly, he took heart, and told herhow he had formerly lived in wealth and happiness, but that now he wasso poor that he did not know what to do.

"Be easy," answered the nix,"I will make thee richer and happier than thou hast ever been before,only thou must promise to give me the young thing which has just beenborn in thy house." "What else can that be," thought the miller, "buta young puppy or kitten?" and he promised her what she desired.

The nixdescended into the water again, and he hurried back to his mill, consoledand in good spirits.

He had not yet reached it, when the maid-servantcame out of the house, and cried to him to rejoice, for his wife hadgiven birth to a little boy.

The miller stood as if struck by lightning;he saw very well that the cunning nix had been aware of it, and hadcheated him.

Hanging his head, he went up to his wife's bedside andwhen she said, "Why dost thou not rejoice over the fine boy?" he toldher what had befallen him, and what kind of a promise he had given tothe nix.

"Of what use to me are riches and prosperity?" he added, "ifI am to lose my child; but what can I do?" Even the relations, who hadcome thither to wish them joy, did not know what to say.

In the meantimeprosperity again returned to the miller's house.

All that he undertooksucceeded, it was as if presses and coffers filled themselves of theirown accord, and as if money multiplied nightly in the cupboards.

It wasnot long before his wealth was greater than it had ever been before.

Buthe could not rejoice over it untroubled, for the bargain which he hadmade with the nix tormented his soul.

Whenever he passed the mill-pond,he feared she might ascend and remind him of his debt.

He never letthe boy himself go near the water.

"Beware," he said to him, "if thoudost but touch the water, a hand will rise, seize thee, and draw theedown." But as year after year went by and the nix did not show herselfagain, the miller began to feel at ease.

The boy grew up to be a youthand was apprenticed to a huntsman.

When he had learnt everything, andhad become an excellent huntsman, the lord of the village took him intohis service.

In the village lived a beautiful and true-hearted maiden,who pleased the huntsman, and when his master perceived that, he gavehim a little house, the two were married, lived peacefully and happily,and loved each other with all their hearts.

One day the huntsman was chasing a roe; and when the animal turnedaside from the forest into the open country, he pursued it and at lastshot it.

He did not notice that he was now in the neighbourhood of thedangerous mill-pond, and went, after he had disembowelled the stag, tothe water, in order to wash his blood-stained hands.

Scarcely, however,had he dipped them in than the nix ascended, smilingly wound her drippingarms around him, and drew him quickly down under the waves, which closedover him.

When it was evening, and the huntsman did not return home, hiswife became alarmed.

She went out to seek him, and as he had often toldher that he had to be on his guard against the snares of the nix, anddared not venture into the neighbourhood of the mill-pond, she alreadysuspected what had happened.

She hastened to the water, and when shefound his hunting-pouch lying on the shore, she could no longer have anydoubt of the misfortune.

Lamenting her sorrow, and wringing her hands,she called on her beloved by name, but in vain.

She hurried across to theother side of the pond, and called him anew; she reviled the nix withharsh words, but no answer followed.

The surface of the water remainedcalm, only the crescent moon stared steadily back at her.

The poor womandid not leave the pond.

With hasty steps, she paced round and round it,without resting a moment, sometimes in silence, sometimes uttering a loudcry, sometimes softly sobbing.

At last her strength came to an end, shesank down to the ground and fell into a heavy sleep.

Presently a dreamtook possession of her.

She was anxiously climbing upwards between greatmasses of rock; thorns and briars caught her feet, the rain beat in herface, and the wind tossed her long hair about.

When she had reached thesummit, quite a different sight presented itself to her; the sky was blue,the air soft, the ground sloped gently downwards, and on a green meadow,gay with flowers of every colour, stood a pretty cottage.

She wentup to it and opened the door; there sat an old woman with white hair,who beckoned to her kindly.

At that very moment, the poor woman awoke,day had already dawned, and she at once resolved to act in accordancewith her dream.

She laboriously climbed the mountain; everything wasexactly as she had seen it in the night.

The old woman received herkindly, and pointed out a chair on which she might sit.

"Thou musthave met with a misfortune," she said, "since thou hast sought outmy lonely cottage." With tears, the woman related what had befallenher.

"Be comforted," said the old woman, "I will help thee.

Here is agolden comb for thee.

Tarry till the full moon has risen, then go tothe mill-pond, seat thyself on the shore, and comb thy long black hairwith this comb.

When thou hast done, lay it down on the bank, and thouwilt see what will happen." The woman returned home, but the time tillthe full moon came, passed slowly.

At last the shining disc appeared inthe heavens, then she went out to the mill-pond, sat down and combedher long black hair with the golden comb, and when she had finished,she laid it down at the water's edge.

It was not long before there was amovement in the depths, a wave rose, rolled to the shore, and bore thecomb away with it.

In not more than the time necessary for the comb tosink to the bottom, the surface of the water parted, and the head of thehuntsman arose.

He did not speak, but looked at his wife with sorrowfulglances.

At the same instant, a second wave came rushing up, and coveredthe man's head.

All had vanished, the mill-pond lay peaceful as before,and nothing but the face of the full moon shone on it.

Full of sorrow,the woman went back, but again the dream showed her the cottage of theold woman.

Next morning she again set out and complained of her woes tothe wise woman.

The old woman gave her a golden flute, and said, "Tarrytill the full moon comes again, then take this flute; play a beautifulair on it, and when thou hast finished, lay it on the sand; then thouwilt see what will happen." The wife did as the old woman told her.

Nosooner was the flute lying on the sand than there was a stirring in thedepths, and a wave rushed up and bore the flute away with it.

Immediatelyafterwards the water parted, and not only the head of the man, but halfof his body also arose.

He stretched out his arms longingly towards her,but a second wave came up, covered him, and drew him down again.

"Alas,what does it profit me?" said the unhappy woman, "that I should see mybeloved, only to lose him again!" Despair filled her heart anew, but thedream led her a third time to the house of the old woman.

She set out, andthe wise woman gave her a golden spinning-wheel, consoled her and said,"All is not yet fulfilled, tarry until the time of the full moon, thentake the spinning-wheel, seat thyself on the shore, and spin the spoolfull, and when thou hast done that, place the spinning-wheel near thewater, and thou wilt see what will happen." The woman obeyed all she saidexactly; as soon as the full moon showed itself, she carried the goldenspinning-wheel to the shore, and span industriously until the flax cameto an end, and the spool was quite filled with the threads.

No sooner wasthe wheel standing on the shore than there was a more violent movementthan before in the depths of the pond, and a mighty wave rushed up, andbore the wheel away with it.

Immediately the head and the whole body ofthe man rose into the air, in a water-spout.

He quickly sprang to theshore, caught his wife by the hand and fled.

But they had scarcely gonea very little distance, when the whole pond rose with a frightful roar,and streamed out over the open country.

The fugitives already saw deathbefore their eyes, when the woman in her terror implored the help of theold woman, and in an instant they were transformed, she into a toad,he into a frog.

The flood which had overtaken them could not destroythem, but it tore them apart and carried them far away.

When the waterhad dispersed and they both touched dry land again, they regained theirhuman form, but neither knew where the other was; they found themselvesamong strange people, who did not know their native land.

High mountainsand deep valleys lay between them.

In order to keep themselves alive,they were both obliged to tend sheep.

For many long years they drove theirflocks through field and forest and were full of sorrow and longing.

Whenspring had once more broken forth on the earth, they both went out oneday with their flocks, and as chance would have it, they drew near eachother.

They met in a valley, but did not recognize each other; yet theyrejoiced that they were no longer so lonely.

Henceforth they each daydrove their flocks to the same place; they did not speak much, but theyfelt comforted.

One evening when the full moon was shining in the sky,and the sheep were already at rest, the shepherd pulled the flute outof his pocket, and played on it a beautiful but sorrowful air.

When hehad finished he saw that the shepherdess was weeping bitterly.

"Why artthou weeping?" he asked.

"Alas," answered she, "thus shone the full moonwhen I played this air on the flute for the last time, and the head of mybeloved rose out of the water." He looked at her, and it seemed as if aveil fell from his eyes, and he recognized his dear wife, and when shelooked at him, and the moon shone in his face she knew him also.

Theyembraced and kissed each other, and no one need ask if they were happy.

8.3 Add  The Nix of the Mill-Pond to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Old Beggar-Woman  Add  The Nix of the Mill-Pond to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Old Beggar-Woman Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Old Beggar-Woman Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Old Beggar-Woman.

