Two or three hundred years ago, when people were far from being socrafty and cunning as they are now-a-day, an extraordinary event tookplace in a little town.

By some mischance one of the great owls, calledhorned owls, had come from the neighboring woods into the barn of oneof the townsfolk in the night-time, and when day broke did not dareto venture forth again from her retreat, for fear of the other birds,which raised a terrible outcry whenever she appeared.

In the morningwhen the man-servant went into the barn to fetch some straw, he wasso mightily alarmed at the sight of the owl sitting there in a corner,that he ran away and announced to his master that a monster, the likeof which he had never set eyes on in his life, and which could devour aman without the slightest difficulty, was sitting in the barn, rollingits eyes about in its head.

"I know you already," said the master,"you have courage enough to chase a blackbird about the fields, butwhen you see a dead hen lying, you have to get a stick before you gonear it.

I must go and see for myself what kind of a monster it is,"added the master, and went quite boldly into the granary and looked roundhim.

When, however, he saw the strange grim creature with his own eyes,he was no less terrified than the servant had been.

With two bounds hesprang out, ran to his neighbours, and begged them imploringly to lendhim assistance against an unknown and dangerous beast, or else the wholetown might be in danger if it were to break loose out of the barn, whereit was shut up.

A great noise and clamour arose in all the streets, thetownsmen came armed with spears, hay-forks, scythes, and axes, as if theywere going out against an enemy; finally, the senators appeared with theburgomaster at their head.

When they had drawn up in the market-place,they marched to the barn, and surrounded it on all sides.

Thereupon oneof the most courageous of them stepped forth and entered with his spearlowered, but came running out immediately afterwards with a shriek and aspale as death, and could not utter a single word.

Yet two others venturedin, but they fared no better.

At last one stepped forth; a great strongman who was famous for his warlike deeds, and said, "You will not driveaway the monster by merely looking at him; we must be in earnest here,but I see that you have all tuned into women, and not one of you daresto encounter the animal." He ordered them to give him some armour, hada sword and spear brought, and armed himself.

All praised his courage,though many feared for his life.

The two barn-doors were opened, and theysaw the owl, which in the meantime had perched herself on the middle of agreat cross-beam.

He had a ladder brought, and when he raised it, and madeready to climb up, they all cried out to him that he was to bear himselfbravely, and commended him to St.

George, who slew the dragon.

When he hadjust got to the top, and the owl perceived that he had designs on her,and was also bewildered by the crowd and the shouting, and knew not howto escape, she rolled her eyes, ruffled her feathers, flapped her wings,snapped her beak, and cried, "Tuwhit, tuwhoo," in a harsh voice.

"Strikehome! strike home!" screamed the crowd outside to the valiant hero.

"Anyone who was standing where I am standing," answered he, "would not cry,strike home!" He certainly did plant his foot one rung higher on theladder, but then he began to tremble, and half-fainting, went back again.

And now there was no one left who dared to put himself in suchdanger.

"The monster," said they, "has poisoned and mortally woundedthe very strongest man among us, by snapping at him and just breathingon him! Are we, too, to risk our lives?" They took counsel as to whatthey ought to do to prevent the whole town being destroyed.

For a longtime everything seemed to be of no use, but at length the burgomasterfound an expedient.

"My opinion," said he, "is that we ought, out ofthe common purse, to pay for this barn, and whatsoever corn, straw,or hay it contains, and thus indemnify the owner, and then burn downthe whole building, and the terrible beast with it.

Thus no one willhave to endanger his life.

This is no time for thinking of expense, andniggardliness would be ill applied." All agreed with him.

So they setfire to the barn at all four corners, and with it the owl was miserablyburnt.

Let any one who will not believe it, go thither and inquirefor himself.

6.7 Add  The Owl to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Pack of Ragamuffins  Add  The Owl to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Pack of Ragamuffins Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Pack of Ragamuffins Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Pack of Ragamuffins.

