A certain man had a donkey, which had carried the corn-sacks to themill indefatigably for many a long year; but his strength was going,and he was growing more and more unfit for work.

Then his master beganto consider how he might best save his keep; but the donkey, seeingthat no good wind was blowing, ran away and set out on the road toBremen.

"There," he thought, "I can surely be town-musician." When hehad walked some distance, he found a hound lying on the road, gaspinglike one who had run till he was tired.

"What are you gasping so for,you big fellow?" asked the donkey.

"Ah," replied the hound, "as I am old, and daily grow weaker, and nolonger can hunt, my master wanted to kill me, so I took to flight;but now how am I to earn my bread?" "I tell you what," said the donkey, "I am going to Bremen, and shall betown-musician there; go with me and engage yourself also as a musician.

Iwill play the lute, and you shall beat the kettledrum." The hound agreed, and on they went.

Before long they came to a cat, sitting on the path, with a face likethree rainy days! "Now then, old shaver, what has gone askew withyou?" asked the donkey.

"Who can be merry when his neck is in danger?" answered the cat.

"BecauseI am now getting old, and my teeth are worn to stumps, and I prefer tosit by the fire and spin, rather than hunt about after mice, my mistresswanted to drown me, so I ran away.

But now good advice is scarce.

Wheream I to go?" "Go with us to Bremen.

You understand night-music, you can be atown-musician." The cat thought well of it, and went with them.

After this the threefugitives came to a farm-yard, where the cock was sitting upon the gate,crowing with all his might.

"Your crow goes through and through one,"said the donkey.

"What is the matter?" "I have been foretelling fine weather, because it is the day on which OurLady washes the Christ-child's little shirts, and wants to dry them," saidthe cock; "but guests are coming for Sunday, so the housewife has no pity,and has told the cook that she intends to eat me in the soup to-morrow,and this evening I am to have my head cut off.

Now I am crowing at fullpitch while I can." "Ah, but red-comb," said the donkey, "you had better come away withus.

We are going to Bremen; you can find something better than deatheverywhere: you have a good voice, and if we make music together it musthave some quality!" The cock agreed to this plan, and all four went on together.

They couldnot, however, reach the city of Bremen in one day, and in the eveningthey came to a forest where they meant to pass the night.

The donkey andthe hound laid themselves down under a large tree, the cat and the cocksettled themselves in the branches; but the cock flew right to the top,where he was most safe.

Before he went to sleep he looked round on allfour sides, and thought he saw in the distance a little spark burning;so he called out to his companions that there must be a house not faroff, for he saw a light.

The donkey said, "If so, we had better get upand go on, for the shelter here is bad." The hound thought that a fewbones with some meat on would do him good too! So they made their way to the place where the light was, and soon saw itshine brighter and grow larger, until they came to a well-lighted robber'shouse.

The donkey, as the biggest, went to the window and looked in.

"What do you see, my grey-horse?" asked the cock.

"What do Isee?" answered the donkey; "a table covered with good things to eat anddrink, and robbers sitting at it enjoying themselves." "That would bethe sort of thing for us," said the cock.

"Yes, yes; ah, how I wish wewere there!" said the donkey.

Then the animals took counsel together how they should manage to driveaway the robbers, and at last they thought of a plan.

The donkey wasto place himself with his fore-feet upon the window-ledge, the houndwas to jump on the donkey's back, the cat was to climb upon the dog,and lastly the cock was to fly up and perch upon the head of the cat.

When this was done, at a given signal, they began to perform theirmusic together: the donkey brayed, the hound barked, the cat mewed,and the cock crowed; then they burst through the window into the room,so that the glass clattered! At this horrible din, the robbers sprang up,thinking no otherwise than that a ghost had come in, and fled in a greatfright out into the forest.

The four companions now sat down at the table,well content with what was left, and ate as if they were going to fastfor a month.

As soon as the four minstrels had done, they put out the light, and eachsought for himself a sleeping-place according to his nature and to whatsuited him.

The donkey laid himself down upon some straw in the yard,the hound behind the door, the cat upon the hearth near the warm ashes,and the cock perched himself upon a beam of the roof; and being tiredfrom their long walk, they soon went to sleep.

When it was past midnight, and the robbers saw from afar that the lightwas no longer burning in their house, and all appeared quiet, the captainsaid, "We ought not to have let ourselves be frightened out of our wits;"and ordered one of them to go and examine the house.

The messenger finding all still, went into the kitchen to light a candle,and, taking the glistening fiery eyes of the cat for live coals, he helda lucifer-match to them to light it.

But the cat did not understand thejoke, and flew in his face, spitting and scratching.

He was dreadfullyfrightened, and ran to the back-door, but the dog, who lay there sprangup and bit his leg; and as he ran across the yard by the straw-heap,the donkey gave him a smart kick with its hind foot.

The cock, too,who had been awakened by the noise, and had become lively, cried downfrom the beam, "Cock-a-doodle-doo!" Then the robber ran back as fast as he could to his captain, and said,"Ah, there is a horrible witch sitting in the house, who spat on meand scratched my face with her long claws; and by the door stands a manwith a knife, who stabbed me in the leg; and in the yard there lies ablack monster, who beat me with a wooden club; and above, upon the roof,sits the judge, who called out, 'Bring the rogue here to me!' so I gotaway as well as I could." After this the robbers did not trust themselves in the house again; butit suited the four musicians of Bremen so well that they did not careto leave it any more.

And the mouth of him who last told this story isstill warm.

8.2 Add  The Bremen Town Musicians to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Bright Sun Brings It to LightOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library  Add  The Bremen Town Musicians to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Bright Sun Brings It to LightOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Bright Sun Brings It to LightOr read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Bright Sun Brings It to Light Or read more short stories for kids in our Children's Library.

