There was once on a time a King who had three sons, of whom two wereclever and wise, but the third did not speak much, and was simple,and was called the Simpleton.

When the King had become old and weak,and was thinking of his end, he did not know which of his sons shouldinherit the kingdom after him.

Then he said to them, "Go forth,and he who brings me the most beautiful carpet shall be King after mydeath." And that there should be no dispute amongst them, he took themoutside his castle, blew three feathers in the air, and said, "You shallgo as they fly." One feather flew to the east, the other to the west,but the third flew straight up and did not fly far, but soon fell tothe ground.

And now one brother went to the right, and the other tothe left, and they mocked Simpleton, who was forced to stay where thethird feather had fallen.

He sat down and was sad, then all at once hesaw that there was a trap-door close by the feather.

He raised it up,found some steps, and went down them, and then he came to another door,knocked at it, and heard somebody inside calling,  "Little green maiden small,Hopping hither and thither;  Hop to the door,And quickly see who is there." The door opened, and he saw a great, fat toad sitting, and round about hera crowd of little toads.

The fat toad asked what he wanted? He answered,"I should like to have the prettiest and finest carpet in the world." Thenshe called a young one and said,  "Little green maiden small,Hopping hither and thither,  Hop quickly and bring meThe great box here." The young toad brought the box, and the fat toad opened it, and gaveSimpleton a carpet out of it, so beautiful and so fine, that on theearth above, none could have been woven like it.

Then he thanked her,and ascended again.

The two others had, however, looked on theiryoungest brother as so stupid that they believed he would find andbring nothing at all.

"Why should we give ourselves a great deal oftrouble to search?" said they, and got some coarse handkerchiefs fromthe first shepherds' wives whom they met, and carried them home tothe King.

At the same time Simpleton also came back, and brought hisbeautiful carpet, and when the King saw it he was astonished, and said,"If justice be done, the kingdom belongs to the youngest." But the twoothers let their father have no peace, and said that it was impossiblethat Simpleton, who in everything lacked understanding, should be King,and entreated him to make a new agreement with them.

Then the father said,"He who brings me the most beautiful ring shall inherit the kingdom,"and led the three brothers out, and blew into the air three feathers,which they were to follow.

Those of the two eldest again went east andwest, and Simpleton's feather flew straight up, and fell down near thedoor into the earth.

Then he went down again to the fat toad, and toldher that he wanted the most beautiful ring.

She at once ordered hergreat box to be brought, and gave him a ring out of it, which sparkledwith jewels, and was so beautiful that no goldsmith on earth would havebeen able to make it.

The two eldest laughed at Simpleton for going toseek a golden ring.

They gave themselves no trouble, but knocked thenails out of an old carriage-ring, and took it to the King; but whenSimpleton produced his golden ring, his father again said, "The kingdombelongs to him." The two eldest did not cease from tormenting the Kinguntil he made a third condition, and declared that the one who broughtthe most beautiful woman home, should have the kingdom.

He again blewthe three feathers into the air, and they flew as before.

Then Simpleton without more ado went down to the fat toad, and said,"I am to take home the most beautiful woman!" "Oh," answered the toad,"the most beautiful woman! She is not at hand at the moment, but stillthou shalt have her." She gave him a yellow turnip which had beenhollowed out, to which six mice were harnessed.

Then Simpleton saidquite mournfully, "What am I to do with that?" The toad answered, "Justput one of my little toads into it." Then he seized one at random out ofthe circle, and put her into the yellow coach, but hardly was she seatedinside it than she turned into a wonderfully beautiful maiden, and theturnip into a coach, and the six mice into horses.

So he kissed her,and drove off quickly with the horses, and took her to the King.

Hisbrothers came afterwards; they had given themselves no trouble at allto seek beautiful girls, but had brought with them the first peasantwomen they chanced to meet.

When the King saw them he said, "Aftermy death the kingdom belongs to my youngest son." But the two eldestdeafened the King's ears afresh with their clamour, "We cannot consentto Simpleton's being King," and demanded that the one whose wife couldleap through a ring which hung in the centre of the hall should havethe preference.

They thought, "The peasant women can do that easily;they are strong enough, but the delicate maiden will jump herself todeath." The aged King agreed likewise to this.

Then the two peasantwomen jumped, and jumped through the ring, but were so stout that theyfell, and their coarse arms and legs broke in two.

And then the prettymaiden whom Simpleton had brought with him, sprang, and sprang throughas lightly as a deer, and all opposition had to cease.

So he receivedthe crown, and has ruled wisely for a length of time.

7.5 Add  The Three Feathers to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Three Green Twigs  Add  The Three Feathers to your library.Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Three Green Twigs Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Three Green Twigs Return to the The Brothers Grimm library, or.

.

.

Read the next fairy tale; The Three Green Twigs.

