A certain tailor who was great at boasting but ill at doing, took it into his head to go abroad for a while, and look about the world. As soon as he could manage it, he left his workshop, and wandered on his way, over hill and dale, sometimes hither, sometimes thither, but ever on and on. Once when he was out he perceived in the blue distance a steep hill, and behind it a tower reaching to the clouds, which rose up out of a wild dark forest.  cried the tailor,  and as he was strongly goaded by curiosity, he went boldly towards it. But what made the tailor open his eyes and mouth when he came near it, was to see that the tower had legs, and leapt in one bound over the steep hill, and was now standing as an all powerful giant before him.  cried the giant, with a voice as if it were thundering on every side. The tailor whimpered,   said the giant,     replied the tailor, and thought, in his own mind,  On this the giant said to him,   asked the boaster, and went with the pitcher to the water.  growled the giant in his beard, for he was rather clownish and stupid, and began to be afraid.  When the tailor had brought the water, the giant bade him go into the forest, and cut a couple of blocks of wood and bring them back.  asked the little tailor, and went to cut the wood.  growled the credulous giant in his beard, and was still more terrified.  When the tailor had brought the wood, the giant commanded him to shoot two or three wild boars for supper.  inquired the ostentatious tailor.  cried the timid giant in great terror; \n\n\tThe giant was so terribly alarmed that he could not close an eye all night long for thinking what would be the best way to get rid of this accursed sorcerer of a servant. Time brings counsel. Next morning the giant and the tailor went to a marsh, round which stood a number of willow-trees. Then said the giant,  All at once the tailor was sitting on it, holding his breath, and making himself so heavy that the bough bent down. When, however, he was compelled to draw breath, it hurried him (for unfortunately he had not put his goose in his pocket) so high into the air that he never was seen again, and this to the great delight of the giant. If the tailor has not fallen down again, he must be hovering about in the air.\n\n\t7                