There was once a poor woodcutter who toiled from early morning till late night. When at last he had laid by some money he said to his boy,  Then the boy went to a High School and learned diligently so that his masters praised him, and he remained there a long time. When he had worked through two classes, but was still not yet perfect in everything, the little pittance which the father had earned was all spent, and the boy was obliged to return home to him.  said the father, sorrowfully,   answered the son,  When the father wanted to go into the forest to earn money by helping to pile and stack wood ans also chop it, the son said,   said the father,   answered the son,  The father then borrowed an axe of the neighbour, and next morning at break of day they went out into the forest together. The son helped his father and was quite merry and brisk about it. But when the sun was right over their heads, the father said,  The son took his bread in his hands, and said,   said the father,  The son, however, went into the forest, ate his bread, was very merry and peered in among the green branches to see if he could discover a bird's nest anywhere. So he went up and down to see if he could find a bird's nest until at last he came to a great dangerous-looking oak, which certainly was already many hundred years old, and which five men could not have spanned. He stood still and looked at it, and thought,  Then all at once it seemed to him that he heard a voice. He listened and became aware that someone was crying in a very smothered voice,  He looked around, but could discover nothing; nevertheless, he fancied that the voice came out of the ground. Then he cried,  The voice answered,  The scholar began to loosen the earth under the tree, and search among the roots, until at last he found a glass bottle in a little hollow. He lifted it up and held it against the light, and then saw a creature shaped like a frog, springing up and down in it.  it cried anew, and the scholar thinking no evil, drew the cork out of the bottle. Immediately a spirit ascended from it, and began to grow, and grew so fast that in a very few moments he stood before the scholar, a terrible fellow as big as half the tree by which he was standing.  he cried in an awful voice,   replied the scholar fearlessly,   cried the spirit;   said the scholar,   said the spirit.   answered the scholar,  The spirit said haughtily,  drew himself together, and made himself as small and slender as he had been at first, so that he crept through the same opening, and right through the neck of the bottle in again. Scarcely was he within than the scholar thrust the cork he had drawn back into the bottle, and threw it among the roots of the oak into its old place, and the spirit was betrayed.\n\n\tAnd now the scolar was about to return to his father, but the spirit cried very piteously,   answered the scholar,   said the spirit,   answered the boy,   said the spirit;  The scholar thought,  Then he took out the cork, and the spirit rose up from the bottle as he had done before, stretched himself out and became as big as a giant.  said he, and handed the scholar a little bag just like a plaster, and said,   said the scholar, and went to a tree, tore off the bark with his axe, and rubbed it with one end of the plaster. It immediately closed together and was healed.  he said to the spirit,  The spirit thanked him for his release, and the boy thanked the spirit for his present, and went back to his father.\n\n\t said the father;    said the father angrily,   Then he took his plaster, rubbed the axe with it, and dealt a mighty blow, but as the iron had changed into silver, the edge turned;  The father was shocked and said,   said the son,   cried the father,  After a while the scholar said,   answered he,   As his anger had now abated, the father at last let himself be persuaded and went home with him. Then he said to the son,  The son took the axe, and carried it into town to a goldsmith, who tested it, laid it in the scales, and said,  The son said,  The goldsmith gave him three hundred thalers, and remained a hundred in his debt. The son thereupon went home and said,   answered the old man,   and he gave the father a hundred thalers, and said,   said the father,  The scholar then told how all had come to pass, and how he, trusting in his luck, had made such a good hit. But with the money that was left, he went back to the High School and went on learning more, and as he could heal all wounds with his plaster, he became the most famous doctor in the whole world.\n\n\t9.3                