There was a certain village wherein no one lived but really rich peasants, and just one poor one, whom they called the little peasant. He had not even so much as a cow, and still less money to buy one, and yet he and his wife did so wish to have one. One day he said to her,  The woman also liked the idea, and their gossip the carpenter cut and planed the calf, and painted it as it ought to be, and made it with its head hanging down as if it were eating.\n\n\tNext morning when the cows were being driven out, the little peasant called the cow-herd and said,  The cow-herd said,  The little calf always remained standing like one which was eating, and the cow-herd said,  At night when he was going to drive the herd home again, he said to the calf,  But the little peasant stood at his door, and waited for his little calf, and when the cow-herd drove the cows through the village, and the calf was missing, he inquired where it was. The cow-herd answered,  But the little peasant said,  Then they went back to the meadow together, but some one had stolen the calf, and it was gone. The cow-herd said,  The peasant, however, said,  and led the cow-herd before the mayor, who for his carelessness condemned him to give the peasant a cow for the calf which had run away.\n\n\tAnd now the little peasant and his wife had the cow for which they had so long wished, and they were heartily glad, but they had no food for it, and could give it nothing to eat, so it soon had to be killed. They salted the flesh, and the peasant went into the town and wanted to sell the skin there, so that he might buy a new calf with the proceeds. On the way he passed by a mill, and there sat a raven with broken wings, and out of pity he took him and wrapped him in the skin. As, however, the weather grew so bad and there was a storm of rain and wind, he could go no farther, and turned back to the mill and begged for shelter. The miller's wife was alone in the house, and said to the peasant, , and gave him a slice of bread with cheese on it. The peasant ate it, and lay down with his skin beside him, and the woman thought,  In the meantime came the parson; the miller's wife received him well, and said,  The peasant listened, and when he heard about feasting he was vexed that he had been forced to make shift with a slice of bread with cheese on it. Then the woman served up four different things, roast meat, salad, cakes, and wine.\n\n\tJust as they were about to sit down and eat, there was a knocking outside. The woman said,  She quickly hid the roast meat inside the tiled stove, the wine under the pillow, the salad on the bed, the cakes under it, and the parson in the cupboard in the entrance. Then she opened the door for her husband, and said,  The miller saw the peasant lying on the straw, and asked,   said the wife,  The man said,  The woman said,   replied the husband,  and looked at the peasant and said,  The peasant did not require to be invited twice, but got up and ate. After this the miller saw the skin in which the raven was, lying on the ground, and asked,  The peasant answered,   said the miller.  answered the peasant,  The miller was curious, and said,  Then the peasant pinched the raven's head, so that he croaked and made a noise like krr, krr. The miller said,  The peasant answered,   cried the miller, and went there and found the wine.  said he. The peasant made the raven croak again, and said,   cried the miller, and went thither, and found the roast meat. The peasant made the raven prophesy still more, and said,   cried the miller, and went there and found the salad. At last the peasant pinched the raven once more till he croaked, and said,   cried the miller, and looked there, and found the cakes.\n\n\tAnd now the two sat down to the table together, but the miller's wife was frightened to death, and went to bed and took all the keys with her. The miller would have liked much to know the fifth, but the little peasant said,  So they ate, and after that they bargained how much the miller was to give for the fifth prophesy, until they agreed on three hundred thalers. Then the peasant once more pinched the raven's head till he croaked loudly. The miller asked,  The peasant replied,  The miller said,  and opened the house-door; then the woman was forced to give up the keys, and the peasant unlocked the cupboard. The parson ran out as fast as he could, and the miller said,  The peasant, however, made off next morning by daybreak with the three hundred thalers.\n\n\tAt home the small peasant gradually launched out; he built a beautiful house, and the peasants said,  Then the small peasant was brought before the Mayor, and bidden to say from whence his wealth came. He answered,  When the peasants heard that, they too wished to enjoy this great profit, and ran home, killed all their cows, and stripped off their skins in order to sell them in the town to the greatest advantage. The Mayor, however, said,  When she came to the merchant in the town, he did not give her more than two thalers for a skin, and when the others came, he did not give them so much, and said, \n\n\tThen the peasants were vexed that the small peasant should have thus overreached them, wanted to take vengeance on him, and accused him of this treachery before the Mayor. The innocent little peasant was unanimously sentenced to death, and was to be rolled into the water, in a barrel pierced full of holes. He was led forth, and a priest was brought who was to say a mass for his soul. The others were all obliged to retire to a distance, and when the peasant looked at the priest, he recognized the man who had been with the miller's wife. He said to him,  At this same moment up came, with a flock of sheep, the very shepherd who as the peasant knew had long been wishing to be Mayor, so he cried with all his might,  The shepherd hearing that, came up to him, and asked,  The peasant said,  The shepherd said,  The peasant said,  The shepherd was willing, and got in, and the peasant shut the top down on him; then he took the shepherd's flock for himself, and drove it away. The parson went to the crowd, and declared that the mass had been said. Then they came and rolled the barrel towards the water. When the barrel began to roll, the shepherd cried,  They believed no otherwise than that it was the peasant who was saying this, and answered,  and they rolled the barrel down into the water.\n\n\tAfter that the peasants went home, and as they were entering the village, the small peasant also came quietly in, driving a flock of sheep and looking quite contented. Then the peasants were astonished, and said,   replied the peasant,  Said the peasants,   said he,  Then the peasants made up their minds that they too would fetch some sheep for themselves, a flock apiece, but the Mayor said,  So they went to the water together, and just then there were some of the small fleecy clouds in the blue sky, which are called little lambs, and they were reflected in the water, whereupon the peasants cried,  The Mayor pressed forward and said,  So he jumped in; splash! went the water; he made a sound as if he were calling them, and the whole crowd plunged in after him as one man. Then the entire village was dead, and the small peasant, as sole heir, became a rich man.\n\n\t10                