Idleness, vice, and intemperance had done their miserable work, andthe dead mother lay cold and still amid her wretched children. Shehad fallen upon the threshold of her own door in a drunken fit, anddied in the presence of her frightened little ones.Death touches the spring of our common humanity. This woman had beendespised, scoffed at, and angrily denounced by nearly every man,woman, and child in the village; but now, as the fact of her deathwas passed from lip to lip, in subdued tones, pity took the place ofanger, and sorrow of denunciation. Neighbors went hastily to the oldtumble-down hut, in which she had secured little more than a placeof shelter from summer heats and winter cold: some withgrave-clothes for a decent interment of the body; and some with foodfor the half-starving children, three in number. Of these, John, theoldest, a boy of twelve, was a stout lad, able to earn his livingwith any farmer. Kate, between ten and eleven, was bright, activegirl, out of whom something clever might be made, if in good hands;but poor little Maggie, the youngest, was hopelessly diseased. Twoyears before a fall from a window had injured her spine, and she hadnot been able to leave her bed since, except when lifted in the armsof her mother."What is to be done with the children?" That was the chief questionnow. The dead mother would go underground, and be forever beyond allcare or concern of the villagers. But the children must not be leftto starve. After considering the matter, and talking it over withhis wife, farmer Jones said that he would take John, and do well byhim, now that his mother was out of the way; and Mrs. Ellis, who hadbeen looking out for a bound girl, concluded that it would becharitable in her to make choice of Katy, even though she was tooyoung to be of much use for several years."I could do much better, I know," said Mrs. Ellis; "but as no oneseems inclined to take her, I must act from a sense of duty expectto have trouble with the child; for she's an undisciplinedthing--used to having her own way."But no one said "I'll take Maggie." Pitying glances were cast on herwan and wasted form and thoughts were troubled on her account.Mothers brought cast-off garments and, removing her soiled andragged clothes, dressed her in clean attire. The sad eyes andpatient face of the little one touched many hearts, and even knockedat them for entrance. But none opened to take her in. Who wanted abed-ridden child?"Take her to the poorhouse," said a rough man, of whom the question"What's to be done with Maggie?" was asked. "Nobody's going to bebothered with her.""The poorhouse is a sad place for a sick and helpless child,"answered one."For your child or mine," said the other, lightly speaking; "but fortis brat it will prove a blessed change, she will be kept clean,have healthy food, and be doctored, which is more than can be saidof her past condition."There was reason in that, but still it didn't satisfy. The dayfollowing the day of death was made the day of burial. A fewneighbors were at the miserable hovel, but none followed dead cartas it bore the unhonored remains to its pauper grave. Farmer Jones,after the coffin was taken out, placed John in his wagon and droveaway, satisfied that he had done his part. Mrs. Ellis spoke to Katewith a hurried air, "Bid your sister good by," and drew the tearfulchildren apart ere scarcely their lips had touched in a sobbingfarewell. Hastily others went out, some glancing at Maggie, and someresolutely refraining from a look, until all had gone. She wasalone! Just beyond the threshold Joe Thompson, the wheelwright,paused, and said to the blacksmith's wife, who was hastening offwith the rest,--"It's a cruel thing to leave her so.""Then take her to the poorhouse: she'll have to go there," answeredthe blacksmith's wife, springing away, and leaving Joe behind.For a little while the man stood with a puzzled air; then he turnedback, and went into the hovel again. Maggie with painful effort, hadraised herself to an upright position and was sitting on the bed,straining her eyes upon the door out of which all had just departed,A vague terror had come into her thin white face."O, Mr. Thompson!" she cried out, catching her suspended breath,"don't leave me here all alone!"Though rough in exterior, Joe Thompson, the wheelwright, had aheart, and it was very tender in some places. He liked children, andwas pleased to have them come to his shop, where sleds and wagonswere made or mended for the village lads without a draft on theirhoarded sixpences."No, dear," he answered, in a kind voice, going to the bed, andstooping down over the child, "You sha'n't be left here alone." Thenhe wrapped her with the gentleness almost of a woman, in the cleanbedclothes which some neighbor had brought; and, lifting her in hisstrong arms, bore her out into the air and across the field that laybetween the hovel and his home.Now, Joe Thompson's wife, who happened to be childless, was not awoman of saintly temper, nor much given to self-denial for others'good, and Joe had well-grounded doubts touching the manner ofgreeting he should receive on his arrival. Mrs. Thompson saw himapproaching from the window, and with ruffling feathers met him afew paces from the door, as he opened the garden gate, and came in.He bore a precious burden, and he felt it to be so. As his arms heldthe sick child to his breast, a sphere of tenderness went out fromher, and penetrated his feelings. A bond had already corded itselfaround them both, and love was springing into life."What have you there?" sharply questioned Mrs. Thompson.Joe, felt the child start and shrink against him. He did not reply,except by a look that was pleading and cautionary, that said, "Waita moment for explanations, and be gentle;" and, passing in, carriedMaggie to the small chamber on the first floor, and laid her on abed. Then, stepping back, he shut the door, and stood face to facewith his vinegar-tempered wife in the passage-way outside."You haven't brought home that sick brat!" Anger and astonishmentwere in the tones of Mrs. Joe Thompson; her face was in a flame."I think women's hearts are sometimes very hard," said Joe. UsuallyJoe Thompson got out of his wife's way, or kept rigidly silent andnon-combative when she fired up on any subject; it was with somesurprise, therefore, that she now encountered a firmly-setcountenance and a resolute pair of eyes."Women's hearts are not half so hard as men's!"Joe saw, by a quick intuition, that his resolute bearing hadimpressed his wife and he answered quickly, and with realindignation, "Be that as it may, every woman at the funeral turnedher eyes steadily from the sick child's face, and when the cart wentoff with her dead mother, hurried away, and left her alone in thatold hut, with the sun not an hour in the sky.""Where were John and Kate?" asked Mrs. Thompson."Farmer Jones tossed John into his wagon, and drove off. Katie wenthome with Mrs. Ellis; but nobody wanted the poor sick one. 'Send herto the poorhouse,' was the cry.""Why didn't you let her go, then. What did you bring her here for?""She can't walk to the poorhouse," said Joe; "somebody's arms mustcarry her, and mine are strong enough for that task.""Then why didn't you keep on? Why did you stop here?" demanded thewife."Because I'm not apt to go on fools' errands. The Guardians mustfirst be seen, and a permit obtained."There was no gainsaying this."When will you see the Guardians?" was asked, with irrepressibleimpatience."To-morrow.""Why put it off till to-morrow? Go at once for the permit, and getthe whole thing off of your hands to-night.""Jane," said the wheelwright, with an impressiveness of tone thatgreatly subdued his wife, "I read in the Bible sometimes, and findmuch said about little children. How the Savior rebuked thedisciples who would not receive them; how he took them up in hisarms, and blessed them; and how he said that 'whosoever gave themeven a cup of cold water should not go unrewarded.' Now, it is asmall thing for us to keep this poor motherless little one for asingle night; to be kind to her for a single night; to make her lifecomfortable for a single night."The voice of the strong, rough man shook, and he turned his headaway, so that the moisture in his eyes might not be seen. Mrs.Thompson did not answer, but a soft feeling crept into her heart."Look at her kindly, Jane; speak to her kindly," said Joe. "Think ofher dead mother, and the loneliness, the pain, the sorrow that mustbe on all her coming life." The softness of his heart gave unwontedeloquence to his lips.Mrs. Thompson did not reply, but presently turned towards the littlechamber where her husband had deposited Maggie; and, pushing openthe door, went quietly in. Joe did not follow; he saw that, herstate had changed, and felt that it would be best to leave her alonewith the child. So he went to his shop, which stood near the house,and worked until dusky evening released him from labor. A lightshining through the little chamber windows was the first object thatattracted Joe's attention on turning towards the house: it was agood omen. The path led him by this windows and, when opposite, hecould not help pausing to look in. It was now dark enough outside toscreen him from observation. Maggie lay, a little raised on thepillow with the lamp shining full upon her face. Mrs. Thompson wassitting by the bed, talking to the child; but her back was towardsthe window, so that her countenance was not seen. From Maggie'sface, therefore, Joe must read the character of their intercourse.He saw that her eyes were intently fixed upon his wife; that now andthen a few words came, as if in answers from her lips; that herexpression was sad and tender; but he saw nothing of bitterness orpain. A deep-drawn breath was followed by one of relief, as a weightlifted itself from his heart.On entering, Joe did not go immediately to the little chamber. Hisheavy tread about the kitchen brought his wife somewhat hurriedlyfrom the room where she had been with Maggie. Joe thought it bestnot to refer to the child, nor to manifest any concern in regard toher."How soon will supper be ready?" he asked."Right soon," answered Mrs. Thompson, beginning to bustle about.There was no asperity in her voice.After washing from his hands and face the dust and soil of work, Joeleft the kitchen, and went to the little bedroom. A pair of largebright eyes looked up at him from the snowy bed; looked at himtenderly, gratefully, pleadingly. How his heart swelled in hisbosom! With what a quicker motion came the heart-beats! Joe satdown, and now, for the first time, examining the thin frame carefullyunder the lamp light, saw that it was an attractive face, and fullof a childish sweetness which suffering had not been able toobliterate."Your name is Maggie?" he said, as he sat down and took her softlittle hand in his."Yes, sir." Her voice struck a chord that quivered in a low strainof music."Have you been sick long?""Yes, sir." What a sweet patience was in her tone!"Has the doctor been to see you?""He used to come.""But not lately?""No, sir.""Have you any pain?""Sometimes, but not now.""When had you pain?""This morning my side ached, and my back hurt when you carried me.""It hurts you to be lifted or moved about?""Yes, sir.""Your side doesn't ache now?""No, sir.""Does it ache a great deal?""Yes, sir; but it hasn't ached any since I've been on this softbed.""The soft bed feels good.""O, yes, sir--so good!" What a satisfaction, mingled with gratitude,was in her voice!"Supper is ready," said Mrs. Thompson, looking into the room alittle while afterwards.Joe glanced from his wife's face to that of Maggie; she understoodhim, and answered,--"She can wait until we are done; then I will bring her somethings toeat." There was an effort at indifference on the part of Mrs.Thompson, but her husband had seen her through the window, andunderstood that the coldness was assumed. Joe waited, after sittingdown to the table, for his wife to introduce the subject uppermostin both of their thoughts; but she kept silent on that theme, formany minutes, and he maintained a like reserve. At last she said,abruptly,--"What are you going to do with that child?""I thought you understood me that she was to go to the poorhouse,"replied Joe, as if surprised at her question.Mrs. Thompson looked rather strangely at her husband for sonicmoments, and then dropped her eyes. The subject was not againreferred to during the meal. At its close, Mrs. Thompson toasted aslice of bread, and softened, it with milk and butter; adding tothis a cup of tea, she took them into Maggie, and held the smallwaiter, on which she had placed them, while the hungry child atewith every sign of pleasure."Is it good?" asked Mrs. Thompson, seeing with what a keen relishthe food was taken.The child paused with the cup in her hand, and answered with a lookof gratitude that awoke to new life old human feelings which hadbeen slumbering in her heart for half a score of years."We'll keep her a day or two longer; she is so weak and helpless,"said Mrs. Joe Thompson, in answer to her husband's remark, atbreakfast-time on the next morning, that he must step down and seethe Guardians of the Poor about Maggie."She'll be so much in your way," said Joe."I sha'n't mind that for a day or two. Poor thing!"Joe did not see the Guardians of the Poor on that day, on the next,nor on the day following. In fact, he never saw them at all onMaggie's account, for in less than a week Mrs. Joe Thompson would assoon leave thought of taking up her own abode in the almshouse assending Maggie there.What light and blessing did that sick and helpless child bring tothe home of Joe Thompson, the poor wheelwright! It had been dark,and cold, and miserable there for a long time just because his wifehad nothing to love and care for out of herself, and so became sore,irritable, ill-tempered, and self-afflicting in the desolation ofher woman's nature. Now the sweetness of that sick child, lookingever to her in love, patience, and gratitude, was as honey to hersoul, and she carried her in her heart as well as in her arms, aprecious burden. As for Joe Thompson, there was not a man in all theneighborhood who drank daily of a more precious wine of life thanhe. An angel had come into his house, disguised as a sick, helpless,and miserable child, and filled all its dreary chambers with thesunshine of love.An Angel in Disguise was featured as TheShort Story of the Day on Mon, Jun 06, 20228.9 