There was once on a time an old king who was ill, and thought to himself,  Then said he,  Faithful John was his favourite servant, and was so called, because he had for his whole life long been so true to him. When therefore he came beside the bed, the King said to him,  Then answered Faithful John,  On this, the old King said,  Then he added,  And when Faithful John had once more given his promise to the old King about this, the King said no more, but laid his head on his pillow, and died.\n\n\tWhen the old King had been carried to his grave, Faithful John told the young King all that he had promised his father on his deathbed, and said,  When the mourning was over, Faithful John said to him,  Then he took him about everywhere, up and down, and let him see all the riches, and the magnificent apartments, only there was one room which he did not open, that in which hung the dangerous picture. The picture was, however, so placed that when the door was opened you looked straight on it, and it was so admirably painted that it seemed to breathe and live, and there was nothing more charming or more beautiful in the whole world. The young King, however, plainly remarked that Faithful John always walked past this one door, and said,   he replied,  But the King answered,  and he went and tried to break open the door by force. Then Faithful John held him back and said,   replied the young King, \n\n\tThen Faithful John saw that there was no help for it now, and with a heavy heart and many sighs, sought out the key from the great bunch. When he had opened the door, he went in first, and thought by standing before him he could hide the portrait so that the King should not see it in front of him, but what availed that? The King stood on tip-toe and saw it over his shoulder. And when he saw the portrait of the maiden, which was so magnificent and shone with gold and precious stones, he fell fainting to the ground. Faithful John took him up, carried him to his bed, and sorrowfully thought,  Then he strengthened him with wine, until he came to himself again. The first words the King said were,   answered Faithful John. Then the King continued, \n\n\tThe faithful servant considered within himself for a long time how to set about the matter, for it was difficult even to obtain a sight of the King's daughter. At length he thought of a way, and said to the King, \n\n\tThe King ordered all the goldsmiths to be brought to him, and they had to work night and day until at last the most splendid things were prepared. When everything was stowed on board a ship, Faithful John put on the dress of a merchant, and the King was forced to do the same in order to make himself quite unrecognizable. Then they sailed across the sea, and sailed on until they came to the town wherein dwelt the princess of the Golden Dwelling.\n\n\tFaithful John bade the King stay behind on the ship, and wait for him.  said he,  Then he gathered together in his apron all kinds of gold things, went on shore and walked straight to the royal palace. When he entered the courtyard of the palace, a beautiful girl was standing there by the well with two golden buckets in her hand, drawing water with them. And when she was just turning round to carry away the sparkling water she saw the stranger, and asked who he was. So he answered,  and opened his apron, and let her look in. Then she cried,  and put her pails down and looked at the golden wares one after the other. Then said the girl,  She took him by the hand and led him upstairs, for she was the waiting-maid. When the King's daughter saw the wares, she was quite delighted and said,  But Faithful John said,  She wanted to have everything brought to her there, but he said,  Then her curiosity and longing were still more excited, until at last she said, \n\n\tOn this Faithful John was quite delighted, and led her to the ship, and when the King saw her, he perceived that her beauty was even greater than the picture had represented it to be, and thought no other than that his heart would burst in twain. Then she got into the ship, and the King led her within. Faithful John, however, remained behind with the pilot, and ordered the ship to be pushed off, saying,  Within, however, the King showed her the golden vessels, every one of them, also the wild beasts and strange animals. Many hours went by whilst she was seeing everything, and in her delight she did not observe that the ship was sailing away. After she had looked at the last, she thanked the merchant and wanted to go home, but when she came to the side of the ship, she saw that it was on the deep sea far from land, and hurrying onwards with all sail set.  cried she in her alarm,  The King, however, seized her hand, and said,  When the princess of the Golden Dwelling heard that, she was comforted, and her heart was inclined unto him, so that she willingly consented to be his wife.\n\n\tIt so happened, however, while they were sailing onwards over the deep sea, that Faithful John, who was sitting on the fore part of the vessel, making music, saw three ravens in the air, which came flying towards them. On this he stopped playing and listened to what they were saying to each other, for that he well understood. One cried,   replied the second,  Said the third,  Then the first began again, and cried,  Spake the second, \n\n\t Then said the second,  Said the third, \n\n\t replied the second, But what avails that?Whosoever knows it and tells it to him, half his body will become stone from the knee to the heart.I know still more; even if the bridal garment be burnt, the young King will still not have his bride. After the wedding, when the dancing begins and the young queen is dancing, she will suddenly turn pale and fall down as if dead, and if some one does not lift her up and draw three drops of blood from her right breast and spit them out again, she will die. But if any one who knows that were to declare it, he would become stone from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot.I will save my master, even if it bring destruction on myself.Good,he shall carry me to my palace,How shameful to kill the beautiful animal, that was to have carried the King to his palace.Hold your peace and leave him alone, he is my most faithful John, who knows what may be the good of that!Behold, now he is even burning the King's bridal garment!Who knows what good he may have done, leave him alone, he is my most faithful John.Throw him into a dungeon.Every one who has to die is permitted before his end to make one last speech; may I too claim the right?Yes,it shall be granted unto thee.I am unjustly condemned, and have always been true to thee,Oh, my most Faithful John. Pardon, pardon—-bring him down.Ah, how ill I have requited great fidelity!Ah, if I could bring thee to life again, my most faithful John.Ah, if I could but bring thee to life again, my most faithful John.Thou canst bring me to life again if thou wilt use for that purpose what is dearest to thee.I will give everything I have in the world for thee.If thou wilt will cut off the heads of thy two children with thine own hand, and sprinkle me with their blood, I shall be restored to life.Thy truth shall not go unrewarded,Hast thou been praying in the church?Yes,but I have constantly been thinking of Faithful John and what misfortune has befallen him through us.Dear wife, we can give him his life again, but it will cost us our two little sons, whom we must sacrifice.We owe it to him, for his great fidelity.God be praised, he is delivered, and we have our little sons again also,' and told her how everything had occurred. Then they dwelt together in much happiness until their death.\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t\n\n\t