Five and twenty ladies, all in a row, sat on one side of the hall,looking very much as if they felt like the little old woman who fellasleep on the king's highway and awoke with abbreviated drapery, forthey were all arrayed in gray tunics and Turkish continuations,profusely adorned with many-colored trimmings.

Five and twentygentleman, all in a row, sat on the opposite side of the hall,looking somewhat subdued, as men are apt to do when they fancy theyare in danger of making fools of themselves.

They, also, were encostume, for all the dark ones had grown piratical in red shirts,the light ones nautical in blue; and a few boldly appeared in white,making up in starch and studs what they lost in color, while allwere more or less Byronic as to collar.

On the platform appeared a pile of dumb-bells, a regiment of clubs,and a pyramid of bean-bags, and stirring nervously among them aforeign-looking gentleman, the new leader of a class lately formedby Dr.

Thor Turner, whose mission it was to strengthen the world'sspine, and convert it to a belief in air and exercise, by setting itto balancing its poles and spinning merrily, while enjoying the"Sun-cure" on a large scale.

His advent formed an epoch in thehistory of the town; for it was a quiet old village, guiltless ofbustle, fashion, or parade, where each man stood for what he was;and, being a sagacious set, every one's true value was prettyaccurately known.

It was a neighborly town, with gossip enough tostir the social atmosphere with small gusts of interest or wonder,yet do no harm.

A sensible, free-and-easy town, for the wisest manin it wore the worst boots, and no one thought the less of hisunderstanding; the belle of the village went shopping with a bigsun-bonnet and tin pail, and no one found her beauty lessened;oddities of all sorts ambled peacefully about on their varioushobbies, and no one suggested the expediency of a trip on the woodenhorse upon which the chivalrous South is always eager to mount anirrepressible abolitionist.

Restless people were soothed by thelullaby the river sang in its slow journey to the sea, old peoplefound here a pleasant place to make ready to die in, young people tosurvey the world from, before taking their first flight, andstrangers looked back upon it, as a quiet nook full of ancientlegends and modern lights, which would keep its memory green whenmany a gayer spot was quite forgotten.

Anything based upon commonsense found favor with the inhabitants, and Dr.

Turner's theories,being eminently so, were accepted at once and energetically carriedout.

A sort of heathen revival took place, for even the ministersand deacons turned Musclemen; old ladies tossed bean-bags till theircaps were awry, and winter roses blossomed on their cheeks;school-children proved the worth of the old proverb, "An ounce ofprevention is worth a pound of cure," by getting their backs readybefore the burdens came; pale girls grew blithe and strong swingingtheir dumb namesakes; and jolly lads marched to and fro embracingclubs as if longevity were corked up in those wooden bottles, andthey all took "modest quenchers" by the way.

August Bopp, the new leader of the class, was a German possessingbut a small stock of English, though a fine gynmast; and, being alsoa bashful man, the appointed moment had no sooner arrived than hefound his carefully prepared sentences slipping away from his memoryas the ice appears to do from under unhappy souls first mounted uponskates.

An awful silence reigned; Mr.

Bopp glanced nervously overhis shoulder at the staring rows, more appalling in their stillnessthan if they had risen up and hooted at him, then piling up the bagsfor the seventh time, he gave himself a mental shake, and, with acrimson visage, was about to launch his first "Ladees undgentlemen," when the door opened, and a small, merry-faced figureappeared, looking quite at ease in the novel dress, as, with acomprehensive nod, it marched straight across the hall to its placeamong the weaker vessels.

A general glance of approbation followed from the gentlemen's side,a welcoming murmur ran along the ladies', and the fifty pairs ofeyes changed their focus for a moment.

Taking advantage of which,Mr.

Bopp righted himself, and burst out with a decided,--"Ladees und gentlemen: the time have arrived that we shall begin.

Will the gentlemen serve the ladees to a wand, each one, then spreadtheirselves about the hall, and follow the motions I will make as Ishall count.

"Five minutes of chaos, then all fell into order, and nothing washeard but the leader's voice and the stir of many bodies movingsimultaneously.

An uninitiated observer would have thought himselfin Bedlam; for as the evening wore on, the laws of society seemedgiven to the winds, and humanity gone mad.

Bags flew in alldirections, clubs hurtled through the air, and dumb-bells played acastinet accompaniment to peals of laughter that made better musicthan any band.

Old and young gave themselves up to the universalmerriment, and, setting dignity aside, played like happy-heartedchildren for an hour.

Stout Dr.

Quackenboss gasped twice round thehall on one toe; stately Mrs.

Primmins ran like a girl of fifteen toget her pins home before her competitor; Tommy Inches, four feetthree, trotted away with Deacon Stone on his shoulder, while Mr.

Steepleton and Miss Maypole hopped together like a pair of livelyyoung ostriches, and Ned Amandine, the village beau, blew arrowsthrough a pop-gun, like a modern Cupid in pegtops instead ofpinions.

The sprightly young lady whose entrance had been so opportune seemeda universal favorite, and was overwhelmed with invitations to "bag,""hop," and "blow" from the gentlemen who hovered about her,cheerfully distorting themselves to the verge of dislocation inorder to win a glance of approbation from the merry black eyes whichwere the tapers where all these muscular moths singed their wings.

Bopp had never seen such a little piece of earnestness before,and began to think the young lady must be training for a boat-raceor the ring.

Her dumb-bells flew about till a pair of white armslooked like the sails of a windmill; she hit out from the shoulderwith a vigor that would have done execution had there been anythingbut empty air to "punish;" and the "one, two, three!" of the Zouavemovement went off with a snap; while the color deepened from pink toscarlet in her cheeks, the black braids tumbled down upon hershoulders, and the clasp of her belt flew asunder; but her eyeseldom left the leader's face, and she followed every motion with anagility and precision quite inspiring.

Bopp's courage rose as hewatched her, and a burning desire to excel took possession of him,till he felt as if his muscles were made of India-rubber, and hisnerves of iron.

He went into his work heart and soul, shaking abrown mane out of his eyes, issuing commands like general at thehead of his troops, and keeping both interest and fun in full blasttill people laughed who had not laughed heartily for years; lungsgot their fill for once, unsuspected muscles were suddenlydeveloped, and, when the clock struck ten, all were bubbling overwith that innocent jollity which makes youth worth possessing, andits memory the sunshine of old age.

The last exercise was drawing to a close, and a large ring ofrespectable members of society were violently sitting down andrising up in a manner which would have scandalized Miss WilhelminaCarolina Amelia S.

Keggs to the last degree, when Mr.

Bopp was seento grow very pale, and drop in a manner which it was evident hispupils were not expected to follow.

At this unexpected performance, the gentlemen took advantage oftheir newly-acquired agility to fly over all obstacles and swarm onto the platform, while the ladies successfully lessened theirunusual bloom by staring wildly at one another and suggesting awfulimpossibilities.

The bustle subsided, as suddenly as it arose; andMr.

Bopp, rather damp about the head and dizzy about the eye, butquite composed, appeared, saying, with the broken English andappealing manner which caused all the ladies to pronounce him "adear" on the spot,--"I hope you will excoose me for making this lesson to be more shortthan it should; but I have exercise nine hours this day, and beingjust got well from a illness, I have not recover the strength I havelost.

Next week I shall be able to take time by the hair, so that Iwill not have so much engagements in one day.

I thank you for yourkindness, and say good-efening.

"After a round of applause, as a last vent for their spirits, theclass dispersed, and Mr.

Bopp was wrestling with a vicious pin as heput on his collar ("a sure sign he has no ma to see to his buttons,poor lamb!" thought Mrs.

Fairbairn, watching him from afar); whenthe sprightly young lady, accompanied by a lad the masculine imageof herself, appeared upon the platform, saying, with an aspect ascordial as her words,--"Good-evening, Professor.

Allow me to introduce my brother andmyself, Dick and Dolly Ward, and ask you in my mother's name, tocome home with us; for the tavern is not a cosy place, and after allthis exertion you should be made comfortable.

Please come, for Dr.

Turner always stayed with us, and we promised to do the honors ofthe town to any gentleman he might send to supply his place.

""Of course we did; and mother is probably freezing her blessed noseoff watching for us; so don't disappoint her, Bopp.

It's allsettled, the sleigh's at the door, and here's your coat; so, comeon!"Dick was a fine sample of young America in its best aspect, andwould have said "How are you?" to Louis Napoleon if he had been athand, and have done it so heartily that the great Frenchman wouldhave found it hard to resist giving as frank an answer.

Therefore nowonder that Mr.

Bopp surrendered at once; for the young gentlemantook possession of him bodily, and shook him into his coat with anamiable impetuosity which developed a sudden rent in the well-wornsleeve thereof, and caused an expression of dismay, to dawn upon theowner's countenance.

"Beg pardon; never mind; mother'll sew you up in two seconds, andyour overcoat will hide the damage.

Where is it? I'll get it, andthen we'll be off.

Bopp colored distressfully, looked up, looked down, and thenstraight into the lad's face, saying simply,--"Thank you; I haf no coat but one.

"Dick opened his eyes, and was about opening his mouth also, for theexit of some blunderingly good-natured reply, when a warning pokefrom his sister restrained him, while Dolly, with the innocenthypocrisy which is as natural to some women as the art of tyingbows, said, as she led the way out,--"You see the worth of gymnastics, Dick, in this delightfulindifference to cold.

I sincerely hope we may reach a like enviablestate of health, and look upon great-coats as effeminate, andmufflers a weakness of the flesh.

Do you think we shall, Mr.

Bopp?"He shook his head with a perceptible shiver as the keen north windsmote him in the face, but answered, with a look half merry, halfsad,--"It is not choice, but what you call necessitee, with me; and Itruly hope you may never haf to exercise to keep life in you whenyou haf sold your coat to pay a doctor's bill, or teach the art oflaughing while your heart is heavy as one stone.

You would not likethat, I think, yet it is good, too; for small things make muchhappiness for me, and a kind word is often better than a rixdollar.

"There was something in the young man's tone and manner which touchedand won his hearers at once.

Dolly secretly resolved to put an extrablanket on his bed, and shower kind words upon him, while Dicktucked him up in buffalo robes where he sat helplessly beaming downupon the red hood at his side.

A roaring fire shone out hospitably as they came, and glorified thepleasant room, dancing on ancient furniture and pictured walls tillthe jolly old portraits seemed to wink a visible welcome.

Acheery-faced little woman, like an elder Dolly, in a widow's cap,stood on the threshold, with a friendly greeting for the stranger,which warmed him as no fine could have done.

If August Bopp had been an Englishman, he would have felt much, butsaid less on that account; if he had been an American, he would havetried to conceal his poverty, and impress the family with his pastgrandeur, present importance, or future prospects; being a German,he showed exactly what he was, with the childlike frankness of hisrace.

Having had no dinner, he ate heartily of what was offered him;being cold, he basked in the generous warmth; being homesick andsolitary, he enjoyed the genial influences that surrounded him, andtold his story, sure of sympathy; for even in prosaic Yankeedom hehad found it, as travellers find Alpine flowers among the snow.

It was a simple story of a laborious boyhood, being early left anorphan, with a little sister dependent on him, till an opening inAmerica tempted him to leave her and come to try and earn a home forher and for himself.

Sickness, misfortune, and disappointment hadbeen his companions for a year; but he still worked, still hoped,and waited for the happy hour when little Ulla should come to himacross the sea.

This was all; yet as he told it, with the magicalaccompaniments of gesture, look, and tone, it seemed full of pathosand romance to his listeners, whose faces proved their interest moreflatteringly than their words.

Ward mended the torn coat with motherly zeal, and gave it manyof those timely stitches which thrifty women love to sew.

The twinsdevoted themselves to their guest, each in a characteristic manner.

Dick, as host, offered every article of refreshment the houseafforded, goaded the fire to a perpetual roar, and discussedgymnastics, with bursts of boyish admiration for the grace and skillof his new leader, whom he christened King of Clubs on the spot.

Dolly made the stranger one of them at once by talking bad German,as an offset to his bad English, called him Professor in spite ofall denials, and unconsciously symbolized his future bondage bygiving him a tangled skein to hold for the furtherance of hermother's somewhat lengthened job.

The Cupid of the present day was undoubtedly "raised" inConnecticut; for the ingenuity and shrewdness of that smallpersonage could have sprung from no other soil.

In former times hisstratagems were of the romantic order.

Colin bleated forth hispassion in rhyme, and cast sheep's eyes from among his flock, whilePhyllis coquetted with her crook and stuck posies in his hat; royalFerdinand and Miranda played at chess; Ivanhoe upset his fellow-menlike ninepins for love of lackadaisical Rowena; and "sweet Moll"turned the pages while her lover, Milton, sang.

But in our day thejolly little god, though still a heathen in the severe simplicity ofhis attire, has become modernized in his arts, and inventedhuskings, apple-bees, sleigh-rides, "drop-ins," gymnastics, and,among his finer snares, the putting on of skates, drawing ofpatterns, and holding skeins,--the last-named having superioradvantages over the others, as all will testify who have enjoyed oneof those hand-to-hand skirmishes.

August Bopp was three and twenty, imaginative, grateful, andheart-whole; therefore, when he found himself sitting opposite ablooming little damsel, with a head, bound by a pretty red snood,bent down before him, and very close to his own a pair ofdistracting hands, every finger of which had a hit to make, and madeit, it is not to be denied that he felt himself entering upon a newand very agreeable experience.

Where could he look but in the faceopposite, sometimes so girlishly merry and sometimes so beautifullyshy? It was a winning face, full of smooth curves, fresh colors, andsunshiny twinkles,--a face every one liked, for it was as changefulas an April day, and always pleasant, whether mischievous, mournful,or demure.

Like one watching a new picture, Mr.

Bopp inspected every feature ofthe countenance so near his own; and, as his admiration "grew bywhat it fed on," he fell into a chronic state of stammer and blush;for the frank eyes were very kind, the smooth cheeks reflected apretty shade of his own crimson, and the smiling lips seemedconstantly suggesting, with mute eloquence, that they were made forkissing, while the expressive hands picked at the knots till theProfessor felt like a very resigned fly in the web of a mostenticing young spider.

If the King of Clubs saw a comely face, the Queen of Hearts saw whatobserving girls call a "good face;" and with a womanly respect forstrength, the manliest attribute of man, she admired the broadshoulders and six feet one of her new master.

This face was nothandsome, for, true to his fatherland, the Professor had an eminentnose, a blonde beard, and a crop of "bonny brown hair" long enoughto have been gathered into a ribbon, as in the days of Schiller andJean Paul; but Dolly liked it, for its strength was tempered withgentleness; patience and courage gave it dignity, and the glancethat met her own was both keen and kind.

The silk was wound at last, the coat repaired.

Dick with difficultyconcealed the growing stiffness of his shoulders, while Dolly turnedup the lamp, which bluntly hinted bedtime, and Mrs.

Wardsuccessfully devoured six gapes behind her hand, but was detected inthe seventh by Mr.

Bopp, who glanced at the clock, stopped in themiddle of a sentence, and, with a hurried "goot-night," made for thedoor without the least idea whither he was going.

Piloted by Dick,he was installed in the "best chamber," where his waking dreams wereenlivened by a great fire, and his sleeping ones by an endlesssuccession of skeins, each rapturously concluded in the style of SamWeller when folding carpets with the pretty maid.

"I tell you, Dolly, it won't do, and I'm not going to have it.

""Oh, indeed; and how will you help it, you absurd boy?""Why, if you don't stop it, I'll just say to Bopp,--'Look here, mydear fellow; this sister of mine is a capital girl, but she willflirt and'"--"And it's a family failing, Dick," cut in Dolly.

"Not a bit of it.

I shall say, 'Take care of your heart, Bopp, forshe has a bad habit of playing battle-door and shuttle-cock withthese articles; and, though it may be very good fun for a time, itmakes them ache when they get a last knock and are left to lie in acorner.

'""What eloquence! But you'd never dare to try it on Mr.

Bopp; and Ishouldn't like to predict what would happen to you if you did.

""If you say 'dare,' I'll do it the first minute I see him.

As forconsequences, I don't care that for 'em;" and Dick snapped hisfingers with an aspect of much disdain.

But something in hissister's face suggested the wisdom of moderation, and moved him tosay, less like a lord of creation, and more like a brother whoprivately adored his sister, but of course was not going toacknowledge such a weakness,--"Well, but soberly, now, I wish you wouldn't plague Bopp; for it'sevident to me that he is hit; and from the way you've gone on thesetwo months, what else was to be expected? Now, as the head of thefamily,--you needn't laugh, for I am,--I think I ought to interfere;and so I put it to you,--do you like him, and will you have him? orare you merely amusing yourself, as you have done ever since youwere out of pinafores? If you like him, all serene.

I'd rather havehim for a brother than any one I know, for he's a regular trumpthough he is poor; but if you don't, I won't have the dear oldfellow floored just because you like to see it done.

"It may here be remarked that Dolly quite glowed to hear her brotherpraise Mr.

Bopp, and that she indorsed every word with mentaladditions of double warmth; but Dick had begun all wrong, and,manlike, demanded her confidence before she had made up her mind toown she had any to bestow; therefore nothing came of it but vexationof spirit; for it is a well-known fact that, on some subjects, ifboys will tease, girls will fib, and both maintain that it is right.

So Dolly whetted her feminine weapon, and assumed a loftysuperiority.

"Dear me! what a sudden spasm of virtue; and why, if it is such asin, has not the 'head of the house' taken his sister to taskbefore, instead of indulging in a like degeneracy, and causingseveral interesting persons to tear their hair, and bewail hisforgetfulness, when they ought to have blessed their stars he wasout of the way?"Dick snowballed a dozing crow and looked nettled; for he hadattained that age when "Tom Brown at Oxford" was the book of books,the twelfth chapter being the favorite, and five young ladies havingalready been endowed with the significant heliotrope flower; all ofwhich facts Dolly had skilfully brought to mind, as a return-shotfor his somewhat personal remarks.

"Bah! they were only girls, and it don't amount to anything among usyoung folks; but Bopp is a grown man, and you ought to respect himtoo much to play such pranks with him.

Besides, he's a German, andmore tender-hearted than we rough Yankees, as any one can see by theway he acts when you snub him.

He is proud, too, for all hismeekness, and waits till he's sure you like him before he saysanything; and he'll need the patience of a family of Jobs at therate you're going on,--a honey-pot one day and a pickle-jar thenext.

Do make up your mind, and say yes or no, right off, Dolly.

""Would you have me meet him at the door with a meek courtesy, andsay, 'Oh, if you please, I'm ready to say Yes, thank you, if you'llbe good enough to say, Will you'?""Don't be a goose, child; you know I mean nothing of the kind; onlyyou girls never will do anything straight ahead if you can dodge andfuss and make a mess of it.

Just tell me one thing: Do you, or don'tyou, like old Bopp?""What an elegant way to put it! Of course I like him well enough asa leader; he is clever, and sort of cunning, and I enjoy his funnyways; but what in the world should I do with a great yellow-hairedladdie who could put me in his pocket, and yet is so meek that Ishould never find the heart to henpeck him? You are welcome to him;and since you love him so much, there's no need of my troublingmyself on his account; for with you for a friend, be can have noearthly wish ungratified.

""Don't try to be cutting, Dolly, because you look homely when youdo, and it's a woman's business to be pretty, always.

All I've gotto say is, you will be in a nice state of mind if you damage Bopp;for every one likes him, and will be down upon you for a heartlesslittle wretch; and I shan't blame them, I promise you.

""I wish the town wouldn't put its fingers in other people's pies,and you may tell it so, with my compliments; and all I have to sayis, that you men have more liberty than you know what to do with,and we women haven't enough; so it's perfectly fair that we shouldshow you the worth of the thing by taking it away now and then.

Ishall do exactly as I please; dance, walk, ride, and flirt, wheneverand with whomever I see fit; and the whole town, with Mr.

Dick Wardat their head, can't stop me if I choose to go on.

Now, then, whatnext?" After which declaration of independence, Dolly folded herarms, wheeled about and faced her brother, a spirited statuette ofSelf Will, in a red hood and mittens.

Dick sternly asked,--"Is that your firm decision, ma'am?""Yes.

""And you will not give up your nonsense?""No.

""You are quite sure you don't care for Bopp?""I could slap him with all my heart.

""Very good.

I shall see that you don't get a chance.

""I wouldn't try a skirmish, for you'll get beaten, Dick.

""We'll prove that, ma'am.

""We will, sir.

"And the belligerents loftily paced up the lawn, with their purposeso well expressed by outward signs, that Mrs.

Ward knew, by the cockof Dick's hat and the decided tap of Dolly's heels, that a storm wasbrewing, before they entered the door.

This fraternal conversation took place some two months from theevening of Mr.

Bopp's advent, as the twins were strolling home fromschool, which school must be briefly alluded to in order to explainthe foregoing remarks.

It was an excellent institution in allrespects; for its presiding genius stood high in the townfolks'esteem, and might have served as an example to Dr.

Watts' "busybee," in the zeal with which he improved his "shining hours," andlaid up honey against the winter, which many hoped would be long incoming.

All manner of aids were provided for sprouting souls andbodies, diversions innumerable, and society, some members of whichmight have polished off Alcibiades a la Socrates, or entertainedPlato with "sthetic tea.

" But, sad to relate, in spite of all theseblessings, the students who resorted to this academy possessed anAdam-and-Eve-like proclivity for exactly what they hadn't got anddidn't need; and, not contented with the pleasures provided, mustneeds play truant with that young scamp Eros, and turn the ancienttown topsy-turvy with modern innovations, till scandalized spinsterspredicted that the very babies would catch the fever, refuse theirpanada in jealous gloom, send billet-doux in their rattles, elope inwicker-carriages, and set up housekeeping in dolls' houses, afterthe latest fashion.

Certain inflammable Southerners introduced the new game, and leftsuch romantic legends of their loves behind them that theirsuccessors were fired with an ambition to do the like, and excel inall things, from cricket to captivation.

This state of things is not to be wondered at; for America, beingrenowned as a "fast" nation, has become a sort of hotbed, and seemsto force humanity into early bloom.

Therefore, past generations mustnot groan over the sprightly present, but sit in the chimney-cornerand see boys and girls play the game which is too apt to end in acheckmate for one of the players.

To many of the lookers-on, the neworder of things was as good as a puppet-show; for, with theenthusiasm of youth, the actors performed their parts heartily,forgetting the audience in their own earnestness.

Bless us! whatrevolutions went on under the round jackets, and what love-tokenslay in the pockets thereof.

What plots and counterplots occupied theheads that wore the innocent-looking snoods, and what captives weretaken in the many-colored nets that would come off and have to betaken care of.

What romances blossomed like dandelions along theroad to school, and what tales the river might have told if any onecould have learned its musical speech.

How certain gates wereglorified by daily lingerings thereat, and what tender memories hungabout dingy desks, old pens, and books illustrated with all mannerof symbolical designs.

Let those laugh who will; older and wiser men and women might havetaken lessons of these budding heroes and heroines; for here all washonest, sincere, and fresh; the old world had not taught themfalsehood, self-interest, or mean ambitions.

When they lost or won,they frankly grieved or rejoiced, and wore no masks except in play,and then got them off as soon as possible.

If blue-eyed Lizziefrowned, or went home with Joe, Ned, with a wisdom older loverswould do well to imitate, went in for another game of foot-ball,gave the rejected apple to little Sally, and whistled "GloryHallelujah," instead of "Annie Laurie," which was better thanblowing a rival's brains out, or glowering at woman-kind foreverafter.

Or, when Tom put on Clara's skates three successive days, anddanced with her three successive evenings, leaving Kitty to freezeher feet in the one instance and fold her hands in the other, shejust had a "good cry," gave her mother an extra kiss, and waitedtill the recreant Tom returned to his allegiance, finding his littlefriend a sweetheart in nature as in name.

Dick and Dolly were foremost in the ranks, and expert in all the newamusements.

Dick worshipped at many shrines, but most faithfully atthat of a meek divinity, who returned charming answers to the ardentepistles which he left in her father's garden wall, where, Pyramusand Thisbe-like, they often chatted through a chink; and Dolly wasseldom seen without a staff of aids who would have "fought, bled,and died" for her as cheerfully as the Little Corporal's Old Guard,though she paid them only in words; for her Waterloo had not yetcome.

With the charming, perversity of her sex in such matters, no soonerhad Dolly declared that she didn't like Mr.

Bopp, than she began todiscover that she did; and so far from desiring "to slap him," atendency to regard him with peculiar good-will and tendernessdeveloped itself, much to her own surprise; for with all hercoquetry and seeming coldness, Dolly had a right womanly heart ofher own, though she had never acknowledged the fact till August Bopplooked at her with so much love and longing in his honest eyes.

Thenshe found a little fear mingling with her regard, felt a strongdesire to be respected by him, discovered a certain something whichshe called conscience, restraining a reckless use of her power, and,soon after her lofty denial to Dick, was forced to own that Mr.

Bopphad become her master in the finer species of gymnastics that camein with Adam and Eve, and have kept all creation turning somersetsever since.

Of course these discoveries were unconfessed, even tothat best bosom friend which any of us can have; yet her mothersuspected them, and, with much anxiety, saw all, yet held her peace,knowing that her little daughter would, sooner or later, give her afuller confidence than could be demanded; and remembering thehappiest moments of her own happy past, when an older Dick wooedanother Dolly, she left that flower, which never can be forced, toopen at its own sweet will.

Meanwhile, Mr.

Bopp, though carrying his heart upon his sleeve,believed his secret buried in the deepest gloom, and enjoyed all thedelightful miseries lovers insist upon making for themselves.

WhenDolly was quiet and absent, he became pensive, the lesson dragged,and people fancied they were getting tired of the humbug; when Dollywas blithe and bland, he grew radiant, exercised within an inch ofhis life as a vent for his emotions, and people went home declaringgymnastics to be the crowning triumph of the age; and when Dolly wascapricious, Mr.

Bopp, became a bewildered weathercock, changing asthe wind changed, and dire was the confusion occasioned thereby.

Like the sage fowl in the story, Dick said nothing, but "kept up aterrible thinking," and, not having had experience enough to knowthat when a woman says No she is very apt to mean Yes, he took Dollyat her word.

Believing it to be his duty to warn "Old Bopp," heresolved to do it like a Roman brother, regardless of his ownfeelings or his sister's wrath, quite unconscious that the motivepower in the affair was a boyish love of ruling the young person whoruled every one else.

Matters stood thus, when the town was electrified by a generalinvitation to the annual jubilee at Jollyboys Hall, which thisspring flowered into a masquerade, and filled the souls of old andyoung with visions of splendor, frolic, and fun.

Being an amiableold town, it gave itself up, like a kind grandma, to the wishes ofits children, let them put its knitting away, disturb its naps, keepits hands busy with vanities of the flesh, and its mind in a stateof chaos for three mortal weeks.

Young ladies were obscured bytarletan fogs, behind which they concocted angels' wings, newspapergowns, Minnehaha's wampum, and Cinderella's slippers.

Inspired butincapable boys undertook designs that would have daunted a costumerof the first water, fell into sloughs of despond, and, emerging,settled down from peers and paladins into jovial tars, friarwaterproofs, and officers in miscellaneous uniforms.

Fathers laughedor grumbled at the whole thing and advanced pecuniary loans withgood or ill grace, as the case might be; but the mothers, whoseinterest in their children's pleasure is a sort of evergreen that nosnows of time can kill, sewed spangles by the bushel, madewildernesses of tissue-paper blossom as the rose, kept temperssweet, stomachs full, and domestic machinery working smoothlythrough it all, by that maternal magic which makes them the humanprovidences of this naughty world.

"What shall I go as?" was the universal cry.

Garrets were taken bystorm, cherished relics were teased out of old ladies' lavenderedchests (happy she who saw them again!), hats were made into boots,gowns into doublets, cloaks into hose, Sunday bonnets despoiled oftheir plumage, silken cauliflowers sown broadcast over the land, andcocked-up caps erected in every style of architecture, while "Tag,Rag, and Bobtail" drove a smashing business, and everybody knew whateverybody else was going to be, and solemnly vowed theydidn't--which transparent falsehood was the best joke of the whole.

Dolly allowed her mates to believe she was to be the Queen ofHearts, but privately laid hold of certain brocades worn by a trimgrandmother half a century ago, and one evening burst upon herbrother in a charming "Little Bo-Peep" costume, which, for thebenefit of future distressed damsels, may be described as a "whitesilk skirt, scarlet overdress neatly bundled up behind," as ancientladies expressed it, blue hose with red clocks, high-heeled shoeswith silver buckles, a nosegay in the tucker, and a fly-way hatperched in this case on the top of black curls, which gaveadditional archness to Dolly's face as she entered, singing thatfamous ditty.

Dick surveyed her with approval, turning her about like a layfigure, and expressing his fraternal opinion that she was "thesauciest little turn-out he ever saw," and then wet-blanketed theremarks by adding, "Of course you don't call it a disguise, do you?and don't flatter yourself that you won't be known; for Dolly Wardis as plainly written in every curl, bow, and gimcrack, as if youwore a label on your back.

""Then I shan't wear it;" and off went the hat at one fell blow, asDolly threw her crook in one corner, her posy in another, and satdown an image of despair.

"Now don't be a goose, and rip everything to bits; just wear adomino over all, as Fan is going to, and then, when you've had funenough, take it off and do the pretty.

It will make two rigs, yousee, and bother the boys to your heart's content.

""Dick, I insist upon kissing you for that brilliant suggestion; andthen you may run and get me eight yards of cambric, just the colorof Fan's; but if you tell any one, I'll keep her from dancing withyou the whole evening;" with which bribe and threat Dolly embracedher brother, and shut the door in his face, while he, puttinghimself in good humor by imagining she was somebody else, departedon his muddy mission.

If the ghosts of the first settlers had taken their walks abroad onthe eventful Friday night, they would have held up their shadowyhands at the scenes going on under their venerable noses; forstrange figures flitted through the quiet streets, and instead ofdecorous slumber, there was decidedly,--"A sound of revelry bynight"Spurs clanked and swords rattled over the frosty ground, as if theBritish were about to make another flying call; hooded monks andnuns paced along, on carnal thoughts intent; ancient ladies andbewigged gentlemen seemed hurrying to enjoy a social cup of tea, andgroan over the tax; barrels staggered and stuck through narrow ways,as if temperance were still among the lost arts, while bears, apes,imps, and elves pattered or sparkled by, as if a second WalpurgisNight had come, and all were bound for Blocksberg.

"Hooray for the Rooster!" shouted young Ireland, encamped on thesidewalk to see the show, as Mephistopheles' red cock's featherskimmed up the stairs, and he left a pink domino at the ladies'dressing-room door, with the brief warning, "Now cut your own capersand leave me to mine," adding, as he paused a moment at the greatdoor,--"By Jove! isn't it a jolly sight, though?"And so it was; for a mammoth boot stood sentinel at the entrance; aBedouin Arab leaned on his spear in one corner, looking as if readyto say,--"Fly to the desert, fly with me,"to the pretty Jewess on his arm; a stately Hamlet, withirreproachable legs, settled his plumage in another, still undecidedto which Ophelia he would first address "The honey of his musicvows.

"Bluff King Hal's representative was waltzing in a way that wouldhave filled that stout potentate with respectful admiration, whileQueen Katherine flirted with a Fire Zouave.

Alcipades whisked MotherGoose about the room till the old lady's conical hat tottered on herhead, and the Union held fast to a very little Mac.

Flocks offriars, black, white, and gray, pervaded the hall, with flocks ofballet girls, intended to represent peasants, but failing for lackof drapery; morning and evening stars rose or set, as partnerswilled; lively red demons harassed meek nuns, and knights of theLeopard, the Lion or Griffin, flashed by, looking heroicallyuncomfortable, in their gilded cages; court ladies promenaded withJack tars, and dukes danced with dairy-maids, while Brother Jonathanwhittled, Aunt Dinah jabbered, Ingomar flourished his club, andevery one felt warmly enthusiastic and vigorously jolly.

"Ach himmel! Das ist wunder schon!" murmured a tall, gray monk,looking in, and quite unconscious that he spoke aloud.

"Hullo, Bopp! I thought you weren't coming," cried Mephistopheles inan emphatic whisper.

"Ah, I guess you! yes, you are well done.

I should like to be aFaust for you, but I haf no time, no purse for a dress, so I throwthis on, and run up for a hour or two.

Where is--who is all thesepeople? Do you know them?"The one with the Pope, Fra Diavolo; the telegraph, and two knightsasking her to dance, is Dolly, if that's what you want to know.

Goin and keep it up, Bopp, while you can; I am off for Fan;" andMephistopheles departed over the banisters with a weird agility thatdelighted the beholders; while the gray friar stole into a cornerand watched the pink domino for half an hour, at the end of whichtime his regards were somewhat confused by discovering that therewere two pink damsels so like that he could not tell which was theone pointed out by Dick and which the new-comer.

"She thinks I will not know her, but I shall go now and find out formyself;" and, starting into sudden activity, the gray brother strodeup to the nearest pink lady, bowed, and offered his arm.

With ahaughty little gesture of denial to several others, she accepted it,and they joined the circle of many-colored promenaders that eddiedround the hall.

As they went, Mr.

Bopp scrutinized his companion,but saw only a slender figure shrouded from head to foot, and thetip of a white glove resting on his arm.

"I will speak; then her voice will betray her," he thought,forgetting that his own was undisguisable.

"Madame, permit me that I fan you, it is so greatly warm.

"A fan was surrendered with a bow, and the masked face turned fullytoward his own, while the hood trembled as if its wearer laughedsilently.

"Ah, it is you,--I know the eyes, the step, the laugh.

Miss Dolly,did you think you could hide from me?""I did not wish to," was the whispered answer.

"Did you think I would come?""I hoped so.

""Then you are not displease with me?""No; I am very glad; I wanted you.

"The pink head drooped a little nearer, and another white glove wentto meet its mate upon his arm with a pretty, confiding gesture.

Bopp instantly fell into a state of bliss,--the lights, music, gaysurroundings, and, more than all, this unwonted demonstration, putthe crowning glory to the moment; and, fired with the hopeful omen,he allowed his love to silence his prudence, and lead him to do,then and there, the very thing he had often resolved never to do atall.

"Ah, Miss Dolly, if you knew how much, how very much you hafenlarged my happiness, and made this efening shine for me, you wouldmore often be a little friendly, for this winter has been all summerto me, since I knew you and your kind home, and now I haf no sorrowbut that after the next lesson I come no more unless you gif meleaf.

See now I must say this even here, when so much people areabout us, because I cannot stop it; and you will forgif me that Icannot wait any longer.

Bopp, please don't, please stop!" began the pink domino in ahurried whisper.

But Mr.

Bopp was not to be stopped.

He had dammedup the stream so long, that now it rushed on fast, full, anduncontrollable; for, leading her into one of the curtained recessesnear by, he sat down beside her, and, still plying the fan, went onimpetuously,--"I feel to say that I lofe you, and tho' I try to kill it, my lovewill not die, because it is more strong than my will, more dear thanmy pride, for I haf much, and I do not ask you to be meine Frau tillI can gif you more than my heart and my poor name.

But hear now; Iwill work, and save, and wait a many years if at the end you willtake all I haf and say, 'August, I lofe you.

' Do not laugh at mebecause I say this in such poor words; you are my heart's dearest,and I must tell it or never come again.

Speak to me one kind yes,and I will thank Gott in himmel for so much joy.

"The pink domino had listened to this rapid speech with averted head,and, when it ended, started up, saying eagerly, "You are mistaken,sir, I am not Dolly;" but as she spoke her words were belied, forthe hasty movement displaced her mask, and Mr.

Bopp saw Dolly'seyes, a lock of dark hair, and a pair of burning cheeks, before thescreen was readjusted.

With redoubled earnestness he held her back,whispering,--"Do not go mitout the little word, Yes, or No; it is not much tosay.

""Well then, No!""You mean it? Dolly! truly mean it?""Yes, let me go at once, sir.

Bopp stood up, saying slowly,--"Yes, go now; they told me youhad no heart; I beliefe it, and thank you for that No;" then bowed,and walked straight out of the hall, while the pink domino brokeinto a fit of laughter, saying to herself,--"I've done it! I've done it! but what a piece of work there'll beto-morrow.

""Dick, who was that tall creature Fan was parading with last night?No one knew, and he vanished before the masks were taken off," askedDolly, as she and her brother lounged in opposite corners of thesofa the morning after the masquerade, "talking it over.

""That was old Bopp, Mrs.

Peep.

""Gracious me! why, he said he wasn't coming.

""People sometimes say what they don't mean, as you may havediscovered.

""But why didn't he come and speak to a body, Dick?""Better employed, I suppose.

""Now don't be cross, dear, but tell me all about it, for I don'tunderstand how you allowed him to monopolize Fan so.

""Oh, don't bother, I'm sleepy.

""No you're not; you look wicked; I know you've been in mischief, andI insist upon hearing all about it, so come and 'fess' thisinstant.

"Dolly proceeded to enforce her command by pulling away his pillowand dragging her brother into a sitting posture in spite of hislaughing resistance and evident desire to exhaust her patience; forDick excelled in teasing, and kept his sister in a fidget frommorning till night, with occasional fits of penitence and pettingwhich lasted till next time.

Therefore, though dying to 'fess,' hewas undecided as to the best method of executing that task in themanner most aggravating to his listener and most agreeable tohimself, and sat regarding her with twinkling eyes, and his curlypate in a high state of rumple, trying to appear innocently meek,but failing signally.

"Now, then, up and tell," commanded Dolly.

"Well, if you won't take my head off till I'm done, I'll tell youthe best joke of the season.

Are you sure the pink domino with Boppwasn't yourself,--for she looked and acted very like you?""Of course I am.

I didn't even know he was there, and think it veryrude and ungentlemanly in him not to come and speak to me.

You knowit was Fan, so do go on.

""But it wasn't, for she changed her mind and wore a black domino; Isaw her put it on myself.

Her Cousin Jack came unexpectedly, and shethought if she altered her dress and went with him, you wouldn'tknow her.

""Who could it have been, Dick?""That's the mystery, for, do you know, Bopp proposed to her.

""He didn't!" and Dolly flew up with a startled look that, to adopt aphrase from his own vocabulary, was "nuts" to her brother.

"Yes he did; I heard him.

""When, where, and how?""In one of these flirtation boxes; they dropped the curtain, but Iheard him do it, on my honor I did.

""Persons of honor don't listen at curtains and key-holes.

What didthey say?""Oh, if it wasn't honorable to listen, it isn't to hear; so I won'ttell, though I could not help knowing it.

""Mercy! don't stop now, or I shall die with curiosity.

I dare say Ishould have done the same; no one minds at such a place, you know.

But I don't see the joke yet," said Dolly dismally.

"I do," and Dick went off into a shout.

"You idiotic boy, take that pillow out of your mouth, and tell methe whole thing,--what he said, what she said, and what they bothdid.

It was all fun of course, but I'd like to hear about it.

""It may have been fun on her part, but it was solemn earnest on his,for he went it strong I assure you.

I'd no idea the old fellow wasso sly, for he appeared smashed with you, you know, and there he wasfinishing up with this unknown lady.

I wish you could have heard himgo on, with tears in his eyes"--"How do you know if you didn't see him?""Oh, well, that's only a figure of speech; I thought so from hisvoice.

He was ever so tender, and took to Dutch when English was toocool for him.

It was really touching, for I never heard a fellow doit before; and, upon my word, I should think it was rather a toughjob to say that sort of thing to a pretty woman, mask or no mask.

""What did she say?" asked Dolly, with her hands pressed tighttogether, and a curious little quiver of the lips.

"She said, No, as short as pie-crust; and when he rushed out withhis heart broken all to bits apparently, she just burst outlaughing, and went and polked at a two-forty pace for half an hour.

"Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.

unclasped her hands, took along breath, and cried out,--"She was a wicked, heartless hussy! and if I know her, I'll neverspeak to her again; for if he was really in earnest, she ought to bekilled for laughing at him.

""So ought you, then, for making fun of poor Fisher when he went downon his knees behind the huckleberry bushes last summer.

He wasearnest enough, for he looked as black-and-blue as his berries whenhe got home.

Your theory is all right, ma'am, but your practice isall bosh.

""Hold your tongue about that silly thing.

Boys in college think theyknow everything, can do everything, have everything, and only needbeckon, and all womankind will come and adore.

It made a man of him,and he'll thank me for taking the sentimental nonsense and conceitout of him.

You will need just such a lesson at the rate you go on,and I hope Fan will give it to you.

""When the lecture is over, I'll go on with the joke, if you want toknow it.

""Isn't this enough?""Oh, bless you, no! the cream of it is to come.

What would you giveto know who the lady was?""Five dollars, down, this minute.

""Very good, hand 'em over, and I'll tell you.

""Truly, Dick?""Yes, and prove it.

"Dolly produced her purse, and, bill in hand, sat waiting for thedisclosure.

Dick rose with a melo-dramatic bow,--"Lo, it was I.

""That's a great fib, for I saw you flying about the whole evening.

""You saw my dress, but I was not in it.

""Oh! oh! who did I keep going to, then? and what did I do tomake a fool of myself, I wonder?"Purse and bill dropped out of Dolly's hand, and she looked at herbrother with a distracted expression of countenance.

Dick rubbed hishands and chuckled.

"Here's a jolly state of things.

Now I'll tell you the whole story.

I never thought of doing it till I saw Bopp and told him who youwere; but on my way for Fan I wondered if he'd get puzzled betweenyou two; and then a grand idea popped into my head to puzzle himmyself, for I can take you off to the life.

Fan didn't want me to,but I made her, so she lent me hoops and gown and the pink domino,and if ever I thanked my stars I wasn't tall, I did then, for thethings fitted capitally as to length, tho' I kept splittingsomething down the back, and scattering hooks and eyes in alldirections.

I wish you could have heard Jack roar while they riggedme.

He had no dress, so I lent him mine, till just before the maskswere taken off, when we cut home and changed.

He told me how youkept running to him to tie up your slippers, find your fan, and tellhim funny things, thinking it was me.

I never enjoyed anything somuch in my life.

""Go on," said Dolly in a breathless sort of voice, and the deludedboy obeyed.

"I knew Bopp, and hovered near till he came to find out who I was.

Itook you off in style, and it deceived him, for I'm only an inch ortwo taller than you, and kept my head down in the lackadaisical wayyou girls do; I whispered, so my voice didn't betray me; and wasvery clinging, and sweet, and fluttery, and that blessed old goosewas sure it was you.

I thought it was all over once, for when hecame the heavy in the recess, I got a bit flustered, he was soserious about it, my mask slipped, but I caught it, so he only sawmy eyes and forehead, which are just like yours, and that finishedhim, for I've no doubt I looked as red and silly as you would havedone in a like fix.

""Why did you say No?" and Dolly looked as stern as fate.

"What else should I say? You told me you wouldn't have him, and Ithought it would save you the bother of saying it, and him the painof asking twice.

I told him some time ago that you were a bornflirt; he said he knew it; so I was surprised to hear him go on atsuch a rate, but supposed that I was too amiable, and that misledhim.

Poor old Bopp, I kept thinking of him all night, as he lookedwhen he said, 'They told me you had no heart, now I believe it, andI thank you for that No.

' It was rather a hard joke for him, butit's over now, and he won't have to do it again.

You said I wouldn'tdare tell him about you; didn't I? and haven't I won the"--The rest of the sentence went spinning dizzily through Dick's head,as a sudden tingling sensation pervaded his left ear, followed by asimilar smart in the right; and, for a moment, chaos seemed to havecome again.

Whatever Dolly did was thoroughly done: when she danced,the soles of her shoes attested the fact; when she flirted, it waswarm work while it lasted; and when she was angry, it thundered,lightened, and blew great guns till the shower came, and the wholeaffair ended in a rainbow.

Therefore, being outwitted, disappointed,mortified, and hurt, her first impulse was to find a vent for theseconflicting emotions, and possessing skillful hands, she left themto avenge the wrong done her heart, which they did so faithfully,that if ever a young gentleman's ears were vigorously and completelyboxed, Dick was that young individual.

As the thunder-clap ceased,the gale began and blew steadily for several minutes.

"You think it a joke, do you? I tell you, it's a wicked, cruelthing; you've told a lie; you've broken August's heart, and made meso angry that I'll never forgive you as long as I live.

What do youknow about my feelings? and how dare you take it upon yourself toanswer for me? You think because we are the same age that I am noolder than you, but you're mistaken, for a boy of eighteen is aboy, a girl is often a woman, with a woman's hopes and plans; youdon't understand this any more than you do August's love for me,which you listened to and laughed at.

I said I didn't like him, andI didn't find out till afterward that I did; then I was afraid totell you lest you'd twit me with it.

But now I care for no one, andI say I do like him,--yes, I love him with all my heart and soul andmight and I'd die this minute if I could undo the harm you've done,and see him happy.

I know I've been selfish, vain, and thoughtless,but I am not now; I hoped he'd love me, hoped he'd see I cared forhim, that I'd done trifling, and didn't mind if he was poor, forI'd enough for both; that I longed to make his life pleasant afterall his troubles; that I'd send for the little sister he loves sowell, and never let him suffer any more; for he is so good, sopatient, so generous, and dear to me, I cannot do enough for him.

Now it's all spoilt; now I can never tell him this, never comforthim in any way, never be happy again all my life, and you have doneit.

"As Dolly stood before her brother, pouring out her words withglittering eyes, impetuous voice, and face pale with passionateemotion, he was scared; for as his scattered wits returned to him,he felt that he had been playing with edge tools, and had cut andslashed in rather a promiscuous manner.

Dazed and dizzy, he satstaring at the excited figure before him, forgetting the indignityhe had received, the mistake he had made, the damage he had done, insimple wonder at the revolutions going on under his astonished eyes.

When Dolly stopped for breath, he muttered with a contrite look,--"I'm very sorry,--it was only fun; and I thought it would help youboth, for how the deuce should I know you liked the man when yousaid you hated him?""I never said that, and if I'd wanted advice I should have gone tomother.

You men go blundering off with half an idea in your heads,and never see your stupidity till you have made a mess that can't bemended; we women don't work so, but save people's feelings, and arecalled hypocrites for our pains.

I never meant to tell you, but Iwill now, to show you how I've been serving you, while you've beenharming me: every one of those notes from Fan which you admire somuch, answer so carefully, and wear out in your pocket, thoughcopied by her, were written by me.

""The devil they were!" Up flew Dick, and clapping his hand on theleft breast-pocket, out came a dozen pink notes tied up with a blueribbon, and much the worse for wear.

He hastily turned them over asDolly went on.

"Yes, I did it, for she didn't know how to answer your notes, andcame to me.

I didn't laugh at them, or make fun of her, but helpedher silly little wits, and made you a happy boy for three months,though you teased me day and night, for I loved you, and hadn't theheart to spoil your pleasure.

""You've done it now with a vengeance, and you're a pair of deceitfulminxes.

I've paid you off.

I'll give Fan one more note that willkeep her eyes red for a month; and I'll never love or trust a girlagain as long as I live,--never! never!"Red with wrath, Dick flung the treasured packet into the fire,punched it well down among the coals, flung away the poker, andturned about with a look and gesture which would have been comicallytragic if they had not been decidedly pathetic, for, in spite of hisyears, a very tender heart beat under the blue jacket, and it wasgrievously wounded at the perfidy of the gentle little divinity whomhe worshipped with daily increasing ardor.

His eyes filled, but hewinked resolutely; his lips trembled, but he bit them hard; hishands doubled themselves up, but he remembered his adversary was awoman; and, as a last effort to preserve his masculine dignity, hebegan to whistle.

As if the inconsistencies of womankind were to be shown him asrapidly as possible, at this moment the shower came on, for, takinghim tenderly about the neck, Dolly fell to weeping so infectiously,that, after standing rigidly erect till a great tear dropped off theend of his nose, ignominiously announcing that it was no go, Dickgave in, and laying his head on Dolly's shoulder, the twins quenchedtheir anger, washed away their malice, and soothed their sorrow byone of those natural processes, so kindly provided for poorhumanity, and so often despised as a weakness when it might prove abetter strength than any pride.

Dick cleared up first, with no sign of the tempest but a slight mistthrough which his native sunshine glimmered pensively.

"Don't dear, don't cry so; it will make you sick, and won't do anygood, for things will come right, or I'll make 'em, and we'll becomfortable all round.

""No, we never can be as we were, and it's all my fault.

I'vebetrayed Fan's confidence, I've spoiled your little romance, I'vebeen a thoughtless, wicked girl, I've lost August; and, oh, dear me,I wish I was dead!" with which funereal climax Dolly cried sodespairingly that, like the youngest Miss Pecksniff, she was indeed"a gushing creature.

""Oh, come now, don't be dismal, and blame yourself for every troubleunder the sun.

Sit down and talk it over, and see what can be done.

Poor old girl, I forgave you the notes, and say I was wrong tomeddle with Bopp.

I got you into the scrape, and I'll get you out ifthe sky don't fall, or Bopp blow his brains out, like a secondWerther, before to-morrow.

"Dick drew the animated fountain to the wide chair, where they hadsat together since they were born, wiped her eyes, laid her wetcheek against his own, and patted her back, with an idea that it wassoothing to babies, and why not to girls?"I wish mother was at home," sighed Dolly, longing for that portwhich was always a haven of refuge in domestic squalls like this.

"Write, and tell her not to stay till Saturday.

""No; it would spoil her visit, and you know she deferred it to helpus through this dreadful masquerade.

But I don't know what to do.

""Why, bless your heart, it's simple enough.

I'll tell Bopp, beg hispardon, say 'Dolly's willing,' and there you are all taut andship-shape again.

""I wouldn't for the world, Dick.

It would be very hard for you, veryawkward for me, and do no good in the end; for August is so proudhe'd never forgive you for such a trick, would never believe that I'had a heart' after all you've said and I've done; and I should onlyhear with my own ears that he thanked me for that No.

Oh, why can'tpeople know when they are in love, and not go heels over head beforethey are ready!""Well, if that don't suit, I'll let it alone, for that is all I cansuggest; and if you like your woman's way better, try it, onlyyou'll have to fly round, because to-morrow is the last night, youknow.

""I shan't go, Dick.

""Why not? we are going to give him the rose-wood set of things, havespeeches, cheers for the King of Clubs, and no end of fun.

""I can't help it; there would be no fun for me, and I couldn't lookhim in the face after all this.

""Oh, pooh! yes, you could, or it will be the first time you darednot do damage with those wicked eyes of yours.

""It is the first time I ever loved any one.

" Dolly's voice was solow, and her head drooped so much, that this brief confession wasapparently put away in Dick's pocket, and being an exceedingly novelone, filled that inflammable youth with a desire to deposit asimilar one in the other pocket, which, being emptied of itsaccustomed contents, left a somewhat aching void in itself and theheart underneath.

After a moment's silence, he said,--"Well, if you won't go, you can settle it when he comes here, thoughI think we should all do better to confess coming home in the dark.

""He won't come here again, Dick.

""Won't he! that shows you don't know Bopp as well as I.

He'll cometo say good-by, to thank mother for her kindness, and you and me forthe little things we've done for him (I wish I'd left the lastundone!), and go away like a gentleman, as he is,--see if he don't.

""Do you think so? Then I must see him.

""I'm sure he will, for we men don't bear malice and sulk and bawlwhen we come to grief this way, but stand up and take it withoutwinking, like the young Spartan brick when the fox was digging intohim, you know.

""Then, of course, you'll forgive Fan.

""I'll be hanged if I do," growled Dick.

"Ah ha! your theory is very good, sir, but your practice is bosh,"quoted Dolly, with a gleam of the old mischief in her face.

Dick took a sudden turn through the room, burst out laughing, andcame back, saying heartily,--"I'll own up; it is mean to feel so, and I'll think about forgivingyou both; but she may stop up the hole in the wall, for she won'tget any more letters just yet; and you may devote your epistolarypowers to A.

Bopp in future.

Well, what is it? free your mind, andhave done with it; but don't make your nose red, or take the starchout of my collar with any more salt water, if you please.

""No, I won't; and I only want to say that, as you owe theexplanation to us both, perhaps it would be best for you to tellAugust your part of the thing as you come home to-morrow, and thenleave the rest to fate.

I can't let him go away thinking me such aheartless creature, and once gone it will be too late to mend thematter.

Can you do this without getting me into another scrape, doyou think?""I haven't a doubt of it, and I call that sensible.

I'll fix itcapitally,--go down on my knees in the mud, if it is necessary;treat you like eggs for fear of another smash-up; and bring him homein such a tip-top state, you'll only have to nod and find yourselfMrs.

any day you like.

Now let's kiss and be friends, and then gopitch into that pie for luncheon.

"So they did, and an hour afterward were rioting in the garret underpretence of putting grandma's things away; for at eighteen, in spiteof love and mischief, boys and girls have a spell to exorcise bluedevils, and a happy faculty of forgetting that "the world is hollow,and their dolls stuffed with saw-dust.

"Dick was right, for on the following evening, after the lesson, Mr.

Bopp did go home with him, "to say good-by, like a gentleman as hewas.

" Dolly got over the first greeting in the dusky hall, and asher guest passed on to the parlor, she popped her head out to askanxiously,--"Did you say anything, Dick?""I couldn't; something has happened to him; he'll tell you about it.

I'm going to see to the horse, so take your time, and do what youlike," with which vague information Dick vanished, and Dolly wishedherself anywhere but where she was.

Bopp sat before the fire, looking so haggard and worn out thatthe girl's conscience pricked her sorely for her part in the change,but plucking up her courage, she stirred briskly among the tea-cups,asking,--"What shall I give you, sir?""Thank you, I haf no care to eat.

"Something in his spiritless mien and sorrowful voice made Dolly'seyes fill; but knowing she must depend upon herself now, and makethe best of her position, she said kindly, yet nervously,--"You look tired; let me do something for you if I can; shall I singfor you a little? you once said music rested you.

""You are kind; I could like that I think.

Excoose me if I am dull, Ihaf--yes, a little air if you please.

"More and more disturbed by his absent, troubled manner, Dolly begana German song he had taught her, but before the first line was sunghe stopped her with an imploring--"For Gott sake not that! I cannot hear it this night; it was thelast I sung her in the Vaterland.

Bopp, what is it? Dick says you have a trouble; tell me, andlet us help you if we can.

Are you ill, in want, or has any onewronged or injured you in any way? Oh, let me help you!"Tears had been streaming down Mr.

Bopp's cheeks, but as she spoke hechecked them, and tried to answer steadily,--"No, I am not ill; I haf no wants now, and no one has hurt me but inkindness; yet I haf so great a grief, I could not bear it all alone,and so I came to ask a little sympathy from your good Mutter, whohas been kind to me as if I was a son.

She is not here, and Ithought I would stop back my grief; but that moosic was too much;you pity me, and so I tell you.

See, now! when I find things gobright with me, and haf a hope of much work, I take the little storeI saved, I send it to my friend Carl Hoffman, who is coming from myhome, and say, 'Bring Ulla to me now, for I can make life go well toher, and I am hungry till I haf her in my arms again.

' I tell noone, for I am bold to think that one day I come here with her in myhand, to let her thank you in her so sweet way for all you haf donefor me.

Well, I watch the wind, I count the days, I haf no rest forjoy; and when Carl comes, I fly to him.

He gifs me back my store, hefalls upon my neck and does not speak, then I know my little Kindwill never come, for she has gone to Himmel before I could make ahome for her on earth.

Oh, my Ulla! it is hard to bear;" and, with arain of bitter tears, poor Mr.

Bopp covered up his face and laid itdown on his empty plate, as if he never cared to lift it up again.

Then Dolly forgot herself in her great sympathy, and, going to him,she touched the bent head with a soothing hand; let her tears flowto comfort his; and whispered in her tenderest voice,--"Dear Mr.

Bopp, I wish I could heal this sorrow, but as I cannot,let me bear it with you; let me tell you how we loved the littlechild, and longed to see her; how we should have rejoiced to knowyou had so dear a friend to make your life happy in this strangeland; how we shall grieve for your great loss, and long to prove ourrespect and love for you.

I cannot say this as I ought, but, oh, becomforted, for you will see the child again, and, remembering thatshe waits for you, you will be glad to go when God calls you to meetyour Ulla in that other Fatherland.

""Ah, I will go now! I haf no wish to stay, for all my life is blackto me.

If I had found that other little friend to fill her place, Ishould not grieve so much, because she is weller there above than Icould make her here; but no; I wait for that other one; I save allmy heart for her; I send it, but it comes back to me; then I know myhope is dead, and I am all alone in the strange land.

"There was neither bitterness nor reproach in these broken words,only a patient sorrow, a regretful pain, as if he saw the two lostloves before him and uttered over them an irrepressible lament.

Itwas too much for Dolly and with sudden resolution she spoke out fastand low,--"Mr.

Bopp, that was a mistake.

It was not I you saw at the masque;it was Dick.

He played a cruel trick; he insulted you and wronged meby that deceit, and I find it very hard to pardon him.

""What! what is that!" and Mr.

Bopp looked up with tears stillshining in his beard, and intense surprise in every feature of hisface.

Dolly turned scarlet, and her heart beat fast as she repeated withan unsteady voice,--"It was Dick, not I.

"A cloud swept over Mr.

Bopp's face, and he knit his brows a momentas if Dolly had not been far from right when she said "he neverwould forgive the joke.

" Presently, he spoke in a tone she had neverheard before,--cold and quiet,--and in his eye she thought she readcontempt for her brother and herself,--"I see now, and I say no more but this; it was not kind when I sotrusted you.

Yet it is well, for you and Richart are so one, I hafno doubt he spoke your wish.

"Here was a desperate state of things.

Dolly had done her best, yethe did not, or would not, understand, and, before she could restrainthem, the words slipped over her tongue,--"No! Dick and I never agree.

Bopp started, swept three spoons and a tea-cup off the table ashe turned, for something in the hasty whisper reassured him.

Thecolor sprang up to his cheek, the old warmth to his eye, the olderectness to his figure, and the eager accent to his voice.

He rose,drew Dolly nearer, took her face between his hands, and bending,fixed on her a look tender yet masterful, as he said with anearnestness that stirred her as words had never done before,--"Dollee, he said No! do you say, Yes?"She could not speak, but her heart stood up in her eyes and answeredhim so eloquently that he was satisfied.

"Thank the Lord, it's all right!" thought Dick, as, peeping in atthe window ten minutes later, be saw Dolly enthroned upon Mr.

Bopp'sknee, both her hands in his, and an expression in her Aprilcountenance which proved that she found it natural and pleasant tobe sitting there, with her head on the kind heart that loved her; tohear herself called "meine;" to know that she alone could comfort him for littleUlla's loss, and fill her empty place.

"They make a very pretty landscape, but too much honey isn't goodfor 'em, so I'll go in, and we'll eat, drink, and be merry, in honorof the night.

"He rattled the latch and tramped on the mat to warn them of hisapproach, and appeared just as Dolly was skimming into a chair, andMr.

Bopp picking up the spoons, which he dropped again to meet Dick,with a face "clear shining after rain;" and kissing him on bothcheeks after the fashion of his country, he said, pointing toDolly,--"See, it is all fine again.

I forgif you, and leave all blame tothat bad spirit, Mephistopheles, who has much pranks like that, butnever pays one for their pain, as you haf me.

Heart's dearest, comeand say a friendly word to Richart, then we will haf a littlehealth,--Long life and happiness to the King of Clubs and the Queenof Hearts.

""Yes, August, and as he's to be a farmer, we'll add another,--'Wiserwits and better manners to the Knave of Spades.

